Resolution 580 (1985)
of 30 December 1985

The Security Council,

Taking note of the letter dated 23 December 1985
from the Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of
Lesotho to the United Nations addressed to the Presi-
dent of the Security Council, 109

Having heard the statement by the Honourable
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of
Lesotho, Mr. M. V. Makhele, 110

Bearing in mind that all Member States must refrain
in their international relations from the threat or use of
force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, or acting in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the Charter of the United
Nations,

Recalling its resolution 527 (1982),

Gravely concerned at the recent unprovoked and premeditated killings for which South Africa is responsible,
in violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
the Kingdom of Lesotho, and their consequences for
peace and security in southern Africa,

Gravely concerned that this act of aggression is
aimed at weakening the determined and unrelenting
humanitarian support given by Lesotho to South
African refugees,

Grieved at the tragic loss of life of six South African
refugees and three nationals of Lesotho resulting from
this act of aggression committed against Lesotho,

Alarmed at the fact that the continued existence of
apartheid in South Africa is the root cause of increased
violence both within South Africa and from South
Africa against neighbouring countries,

1. Strongly condemns these killings and recent acts
of unprovoked and premeditated violence, for which
South Africa is responsible, against the Kingdom of
Lesotho in flagrant violation fo the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country;

2. Demands the payment by South Africa of full and
adequate compensation to the Kingdom of Lesotho for
the damage and loss of life resulting from this act of
aggression;

3. Calls upon all parties to normalize their relations
and to employ established channels of communication
on all matters of mutual concern;

4. Reaffirms Lesotho’s right to receive and give
sanctuary to the victims of apartheid in accordance with
its traditional practice, humanitarian principles and its
international obligations;

5. Requests Member States to extend urgently all
necessary economic assistance to Lesotho in order to
strengthen its capacity to receive, maintain and protect
South African refugees in Lesotho;

6. Calls upon the South African Government to
resort to peaceful means in resolving international problems in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the Declaration on Principles of International
Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation
among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations; 111

7, Further calls upon South Africa to live up to its
commitment not to destabilize neighbouring countries
nor to allow its territory to be used as a springboard for
attacks against neighbouring countries and to declare
publicly that it will, in future, comply with provisions of
the Charter of the United Nations and that it will not
commit acts of violence against Lesotho, either directly
or through its proxies;

8. Demands that South Africa forthwith take meaningful steps towards the dismantling of apartheid;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to establish, in
consultation with the Government of Lesotho, an
appropriate presence comprising one or two civilians
in Maseru, for the purpose of keeping him informed of
any development affecting the territorial integrity of
Lesotho;

10. Further requests the Secretary-General, through
appropriate means, to monitor the implementation of
the present resolution and the prevailing situation and to
report to the Security Council as the situation demands;

11. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the
2639th meeting.

109 Official Records of the Security Council, Fortieth Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1985, document S/17692.
110 Ibid., Fortieth Year, 2638th meeting.
111 General Assembly resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.