RESOLUTION 858 (1993)

Adopted by the Security Council at its 3268th meeting,
on 24 August 1993

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolution 849 (1993) of 9 July 1993, which reserved to the
Council a decision on the deployment of observers, following implementation of a
cease~fire,

Welcoming the signing of the Cease-fire Agreement of 27 July 1993 between
the Republic of Georgia and forces in Abkhazia,

Recalling its resolution 854 (1993) of 6 August 1993, in which the Council
approved the deployment of an advance team of observers for a period of three
months,

Having considered the Secretary-General's report,

Reaffirming previous statements which underscored the vital importance of
the maintenance of cease-fire agreements, in particular the statement of the
President of the Security Council on 2 July 1993 (S/26032),

Determining that continuation of the conflict in Georgia threatens peace
and stability in the region,

Noting that the parties to the conflict have committed themselves to
withdrawal of forces from Abkhazia and that this withdrawal is at present under
way,

1. Welcomes the Secretary-General's report of 6 August 1993 (S/26250);

2. Decides to establish a United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia
(UNOMIG) in accordance with the above-mentioned report comprising up to
eighty~eight military observers, plus minimal staff necessary to support UNOMIG,
with the following mandate:

(a) To verify compliance with the Cease-fire Agreement of 27 July 1993
with special attention to the situation in the City of Sukhumi;

(b) To investigate reports of cease-fire violations and to attempt to
resolve such incidents with the parties involved;

(c) To report to the Secretary-General on the implementation of its
mandate including, in particular, violations of the Cease-fire Agreement;

3. Decides that UNOMIG is established for a period of six mOnths subject
to the proviso that it will be extended beyond the initial ninety days only upon
a review by the Council based on a report from the Secretary-General whether or
not substantive progress had been made towards implementing measures aimed at
establishing a lasting peace;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report as appropriate, but in any
event within three months, on the activities of UNOMIG;

5. Decides to keep under constant review the operational arrangements to
implement the mandate contained in this resolution, in the light of any further
recommendations that the Secretary~General may make in this regard;

6. Welcomes the proposed deployment of mixed interim monitoring groups of
Georgian/Abkhaz/Russian units designed to consolidate the cease-fire, and
requests the Secretary-General to facilitate cooperation between the United
Nations observers and these units within their respective mandates;

7. Calls on all parties to respect and implement the Cease-fire Agreement
of 27 July 1993 and to cooperate fully with UNOMIG and ensure the safety of all
United Nations personnel and all other peace-keeping and humanitarian personnel
within Georgia;

8. Calls _ on the Government of the Republic of Georgia to conclude
expeditiously with the United Nations a status of forces agreement to facilitate
deployment of UNOMIG;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to pursue energetically, through his
Special Envoy, efforts to facilitate the peace process and negotiations,
starting aS soon as possible, towards the achievement of a comprehensive
political settlement;

10. Expresses its continuing support for the Secretary-General's ongoing
cooperation with the Chairman-in-Office of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in efforts to bring peace to Georgia and elsewhere
in the region;

11. Decides to remain seized of the matter.
