Resolution 428 (1978)
of 6 May 1978

The Security Council,

Having considered the letter dated 5 May 1978 from
the Permanent Representative of Angola transmitting
a communication from the First Vice-Prime Minister
of the People’s Republic of Angola 43 and the letter
dated 5 May 1978 from the Permanent Representative
of Zambia on behalf of the Group of African States
at the United Nations, 44

Having heard the statement of the Permanent Representative of Angola, 45

Having heard the statement of Mr. Sam Nujoma,
President of the South West Africa People’s Organization, 45

Bearing in mind that all Member States are obliged
to refrain in their international relations from the threat
or use of force against the sovereignty, territorial
integrity or political independence of any State and
from acting in any other manner inconsistent with the
principles and purposes of the Charter of the United
Nations,

Recalling its resolution 387 (1976) of 31 March
1976 in which, inter alia, it condemned South Africa’s
aggression against the People’s Republic of Angola and
demanded that South Africa scrupulously respect the
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of
the People’s Republic of Angola,

Gravely concerned at the armed invasions committed
by South Africa in violation of the sovereignty, air
space and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic
of Angola and in particular the armed invasion of
Angola carried out on 4 May 1978,

Grieved at the tragic loss of human lives, including
those of Namibian refugees in Angola, caused by the
South African invasion of Angolan territory,

Concerned also at the damage and destruction done
by the South African forces in Angola,

Reaffirming the inalienable right of the people of Namibia to self-determination and independence in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
of 14 December 1960 and the legitimacy of their
struggle to secure the enjoyment of such rights as set
forth in the Charter,

Reaffirming that the liberation of Namibia is one
of the prerequisites for the attainment of justice and
lasting peace in southern Africa and for the furtherance of international peace and security,

Reiterating its grave concern at South Africa’s brutal
repression of the Namibian people and its persistent
violation of their human rights as well as its efforts to
destroy the national unity and territorial integrity of
Namibia and its aggressive military build-up in the area,

Reaffirming its condemnation of the militarization
of Namibia by the illegal occupation régime of South
Africa,

1. Strongly condemns the latest armed invasion
perpetrated by the South African racist régime against
the People’s Republic of Angola, which constitutes a
flagrant violation of the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Angola;

2. Condemns equally strongly South Africa’s utilization of the international Territory of Namibia as a
springboard for armed invasions of the People’s Republic of Angola;

3. Demands the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of all South African forces from Angola;

4. Further demands that South Africa scrupulously
respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial
integrity of the People’s Republic of Angola;

5. Reaffirms its support for the just and legitimate
struggle of the people of Namibia for the attainment
of their freedom and independence and for the maintenance of the territorial integrity of their country;

6. Commends the People’s Republic of Angola for
its continued support of the people of Namibia in their
just and legitimate struggle;

7. Demands that South Africa put an end to its
illegal occupation of Namibia without any further delay,
in compliance with relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular resolution 385 (1976) of 30 January 1976;

8. Decides to meet again in the event of further
acts of violation of the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of the People’s Republic of Angola by the
South African racist régime in order to consider the
adoption of more effective measures, in accordance
with the appropriate provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations, including Chapter VII thereof.

Adopted unanimously at the
2078th meeting.


43 Ibid,, document S/12690.
44 Ibid,, document S/12693.
45 [bid., Thirty-third Year, 2077th meeting.
