RESOLUTION 789 (1992)

Adopted by the Security Council at its 3140th meeting,
on 25 November 1992

The Security Council,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of 19 November 1992
on his mission of good offices in Cyprus, 1/

Noting with satisfaction that the two leaders discussed all the issues in
the Set of Ideas with the result that there were areas of agreement as noted
in the report,

Welcoming the agreement by the two sides to meet again with the
Secretary-General in early March 1993 to complete the work on an agreed Set of
Ideas,

1. Reaffirms all its previous resolutions on Cyprus, including
resolutions 365 (1974), 367 (1975), 541 (1983), 550 (1984) and 774 (1992);

2. Endorses the report of the Secretary-General and commends him fo
his efforts;

3. Reaffirm also its endorsement of the Set of Ideas including the
territorial adjustments reflected in the map contained in the annex to the
report of the Secretary-General of 21 August 1992 2/ as the basis for reaching
an overall framework agreement;

4. Reaffirms further its position that the present status quo is not
acceptable and that an overall agreement in line with the Set of Ideas should
be achieved without further delay;

5. Notes that the recent joint meetings did not achieve their intended
goal, in particular because certain positions adopted by the Turkish Cypriot
side were fundamentally at variance with the Set of Ideas;

6. Calls upon the Turkish Cypriot side to adopt positions that are
consistent with the Set of Ideas on those issues identified by the
Secretary-General in his report, and for all concerned to be prepared in the
next round of talks to make decisions that will bring about a speedy agreement;

7. Recognizes that the completion of this process in March 1993 would
be greatly facilitated by the implementation by each side of measures designed
to promote mutual confidence;

8. Urges all concerned to commit themselves to the confidence-building
measures set out below:

(a) That, as a first step towards the withdrawal of non-Cypriot forces
envisaged in the Set of Ideas, the number of foreign troops in the Republic of
Cyprus undergo a significant reduction and that a reduction of defence
spending be effected in the Republic of Cyprus;

(b) That the military authorities on each side cooperate with the United
Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus in order to extend the unmanning
agreement of 1989 to all areas of the United Nations-controlled Buffer Zone
where the two sides are in close proximity to each other;

(c) That, with a view to the implementation of resolution 550 (1984),
the area at present under the control of the United Nations Peace-keeping
Force in Cyprus be extended to include Varosha;

(d) That each side take active measures to promote people-to-people
contact between the two communities by reducing restrictions to the movement
of persons across the Buffer Zone;

(e) That restrictions imposed on foreign visitors crossing the Buffer
Zone be reduced;

(f) That each side propose bi-communal projects, for possible financing
by lending and donor Governments as well as international institutions:

(g) That both sides commit themselves to the holding of a Cyprus-wide
census under the auspices of the United Nations;

(h) That both sides cooperate to enable the United Nations to undertake,
in the relevant locations, feasibility studies (i) in connection with the
resettlement and rehabilitation of persons who would be affected by the
territorial adjustments as part of the overall agreement, and (ii) in
connection with the programme of economic development that would, as part of
the overall agreement, benefit those persons who would resettle in the area
under Turkish Cypriot administration;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to follow up on the implementation of
the above confidence-building measures and to keep the Security Council
informed as appropriate;

10. Also requests the Secretary-General to maintain such preparatory
contacts as he considers appropriate before the resumption of the joint
meetings in March 1993, and to propose for the Security Council's
consideration revisions in the negotiating format to make it more effective;

ll. Further requests the Secretary-General, during the March 1993 joint
meetings, to assess developments on a regular basis with the Council with a

view to considering what further action may be needed by the Council;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a full report after the
conclusion of the joint meetings that will resume in March 1993.


1/ S/24830.
2/ S/24472.
 
