Resolution 616 (1988)
of 20 July 1988

The Security Council,

Having considered the letter dated 5 July 1988 from the
Acting Permanent Representative of the Islamic Republic of
Iran addressed to the President of the Security Council, 69

Having heard the statement of the representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ali
Akbar Velayati 70 and the statement of the representative of
the United States of America, Vice-President George
Bush, 70

Deeply distressed that a civil aircraft of Iran Air -- scheduled international flight 655 —- was destroyed in flight
over the Strait of Hormuz by a missile fired from the United
States warship USS Vincennes,

Stressing the need for a full explanation of the facts of the
incident based upon impartial investigation,

Gravely disturbed at the increasing exacerbation of
tension in the Gulf region,

1. Expresses its deep distress at the downing of an
Iranian civil aircraft by a missile fired from a United States
warship and profound regret over the tragic loss of innocent
lives;

2. Expresses its sincere condolences to the families of
the victims of the tragic incident and to the peoples and
Governments of their countries of origin;

3. Welcomes the decision of the International Civil
Aviation Organization, in response to the request of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, “to institute an immediate fact-finding investigation to determine all relevant facts and
technical aspects of the chain of events relating to the flight
and destruction of the aircraft” and welcomes the announcements by the United States of America and by the Islamic
Republic of Iran of their decisions to co-operate with the
International Civil Aviation Organization investigation;
4. Urges all parties to the Convention on International
Civil Aviation, signed at Chicago in 1944, 71 to observe to
the fullest extent, in all circumstances, the international
rules and practices concerning the safety of civil aviation, in
particular those of the annexes to that Convention, in order
to prevent the recurrence of incidents of the same nature;

5. Stresses the need for a full and rapid implementation
of its resolution 598 (1987) of 20 July 1987, as the only
basis for a comprehensive, just, honourable and durable
settlement of the conflict between the Islamic Republic of
Iran and Iraq, and reaffirms its support to the efforts of the
Secretary-General to implement that resolution, committing
itself to work with him in the development of his implementation plan.

Adopted unanimously at the
2821st meeting.

69 Ibid., document S/19981.
70 Ibid., Forty-third Year. 2818th meeting.
71 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 15, No. 102.
