Resolution 507 (1982)
of 28 May 1982
The Security Council,

Having examined the report of the Security Council Com
mission of Inquiry established under resolution 496 (1981), 53

Gravely concerned at the violation of the territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty of the Republic of
Seychelles,

Deeply grieved at the loss of life and substantial damage
to property caused by the mercenary invading force during
its attack on the Republic of Seychelles on 25 November
1981,

Gravely concerned at the mercenary aggression against
the Republic of Seychelles, prepared in and executed from
South Africa,

Deeply concerned at the danger which mercenaries represent for all States, particularly the small and weak ones,
and for the stability and independence of African States,

Concerned at the long-term effects of the mercenary
aggression of 25 November 1981 on the economy of the
Republic of Seychelles,

Reiterating resolution 496 (1981), in which it affirms that
the territorial integrity and political independence of the
Republic of Seychelles must be respected,

1. Takes note of the report of the Security Council Commission of Inquiry established under resolution 496 (1981)
and expresses its appreciation for the work accomplished;

2. Strongly condemns the mercenary aggression against
the Republic of Seychelles;

3. Commends the Republic of Seychelles for successfully repulsing the mercenary aggression and defending its
territorial integrity and independence;

4. Reaffirms its resolution 239 (1967) by which, inter
alia, it condemns any State which persists in permitting or
tolerating the recruitment of mercenaries and the provision
of facilities to them, with the objective of overthrowing the
Governments of Member States;

5. Condemns all forms of external interference in the
internal affairs of Member States, including the use of mercenaries to destabilize States and/or to violate the territorial
integrity, sovereignty and independence of States;

6. Further condemns the illegal acts against the security
and safety of civil aviation committed in the Republic of
Seychelles on 25 November 1981;

7. Calls upon all States to provide the Security Council
with any information they might have in connection with
the mercenary aggression of 25 November 1981 likely to
throw further light on the aggression, in particular transcripts
of court proceedings and testimony in any trial of any member of the invading mercenary force;

8. Appeals to all States and international organizations,
including the specialized agencies of the United Nations, to
assist the Republic of Seychelles to repair the damage caused
by the act of mercenary aggression;

9. Decides to establish, by 5 June 1982, a special fund
for the Republic of Seychelles, to be supplied by voluntary
contributions, through which assistance should be channelled for economic reconstruction;

10. Decides to establish an ad hoc committee, before
the end of May 1982, composed of four members of the
Security Council, to be chaired by France, to co-ordinate
and mobilize resources for the Special Fund established
under paragraph 9 of the present resolution, for immediate
disbursement to the Republic of Seychelles;

11. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary assistance to the Ad Hoc Committee for the implementation, in particular, of paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of the
present resolution:

12. Decides to mandate the Commission of Inquiry to
examine all further developments and present by 15 August
1982 a supplementary report, with appropriate recommendations, which should take into account, inter alia, the
evidence and testimony presented at any trial of any member
of the invading mercenary force;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary assistance for the implementation of the present reolution and paragraph 12 above;

14. Decides to remain seized of the question.

Adopted unanimously at the
2370th meeting.


53 Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-seventh Year, Special
Supplement No. 2