3 (1946). Resolution of 4 April 1946

The Security Council,

Taking note of the statements by the Iranian representative that the Iranian appeal to the Council arises from the presence of USSR troops in Iran and their continued presence there beyond the date stipulated for their withdrawal in the Tri-partite Treaty of 29 January 1942, 1

Taking note of the replies dated 3 April of the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 2 and the Iranian Government 3 pursuant to the request of the Secretary-General for information as to the state of the negotiations between the two Governments and as to whether the withdrawal of USSR troops from Iran is conditional upon agreement on other subjects,

And in particular taking note of and relying upon the assurances of the USSR Government that the withdrawal of USSR troops from Iran has already commenced; that it is the intention of the USSR Government to proceed with the withdrawal of its troops as rapidly as possible; that the USSR Government expects the withdrawal of all USSR troops from the whole of Iran to be completed within five or six weeks; and that the proposals under negotiation between the Iranian Government and the USSR Government “are not connected with the withdrawal of USSR troops”,

Being solicitous to avoid any possibility of the presence of USSR troops in Iran being used to influence the course of the negotiations between the Governments of Iran and the USSR,

Recognizing that the withdrawal of all USSR troops from the whole of Iran cannot be completed in a substantially shorter period of time than that within which the USSR Government has declared it to be
its intention to complete such withdrawal,

Resolves that the Council defer further proceedings on the Iranian appeal until 6 May, at which time the USSR Government and the Iranian Government are requested to report to the Council whether the withdrawal of all USSR troops from the whole of Iran has been completed and at which time the Council shall consider what, if any, further proceedings on the Iranian appeal are required,

Provided, however, that if in the meantime either the USSR Government or the Iranian Government or
any member of the Security Council reports to the Secretary-General any developments which may retard
or threaten to retard the prompt withdrawal of USSR troops from Iran, in accordance with the assurances of the USSR to the Council, the Secretary-General shall immediately call to the attention of the Council such reports, which shall be considered as the first item on the agenda.

Adopted at the 30th meeting by 9 votes (Australia, present and not voting; Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, absent).

1 Official Records of the Security Council, First Year, First Series, Supplement No. 1. annex 2B, pp. 43-46.

2 Ibid., First Year, First Series, No. 2, 29th meeting, p. 84
(document S/24).

3 Ibid., pp. 85-86 (document S/25).
