Resolution 545 (1983)
of 20 December 1983

The Security Council,

Having heard the statement of the Permanent
Representative of Angola to the United Nations, 76

Deeply concerned at the continued occupation of
parts of southern Angola by the South African military
forces in flagrant violation of the principles and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and of
international law,

Gravely concerned at the massive loss of human
life and extensive destruction of property brought
about by the continuing attacks against and military
occupation of the territory of Angola,

Recalling its resolutions 387 (1976), 428 (1978), 447
(1979), 454 (1979) and 475 (1980),

Bearing in mind that in accordance with Article 2.
paragraph 4, of the Charter, all Member States shall
refrain in their international relations from the threat
or use of force against the territorial integrity or politi-
cal independence of any State or in any other manner
inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations,

Conscious of the need to take effective measures
to maintain international peace and security in view of
the continued violation of the Charter by South
Africa,

1. Strongly condemns South Africa's continued
military occupation of parts of southern Angola which
constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and
of the independence, sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Angola;

2. Declares that the continued illegal military
occupation of the territory of Angola is a flagrant
violation of the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Angola and endangers international
peace and security;

3. Demands that South Africa should unconditionally withdraw forthwith all its occupation forces
from the territory of Angola and cease all violations
against that State and henceforth scrupulously respect
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Angola;

4. Considers, moreover, that Angola is entitled to
appropriate redress for any material damage it has
suffered;

5. Calls upon all Member States to desist from any
action which would undermine the independence,
territorial integrity and sovereignty of Angola;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor the
implementation of the present resolution and report
to the Security Council accordingly;

7. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted at the 2508th meeting
by I4 votes to none, with 1
abstention (United States of
America).


76 Ibid., 2504th meeting.


