Resolution 269 (1969)
of 12 August 1969

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolution 264 (1969) of 20 March
1969,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General
contained in document S/9204, 4

Mindful of its responsibility to take necessary action
to secure strict compliance with the obligations entered
into by States Members of the United Nations under
the provisions of Article 25 of the Charter of the
United Nations,

Mindful also of its responsibilities under Article 6 of
the Charter of the United Nations,

1. Reaffirms its resolution 264 (1969);

2. Condemns the Government of South Africa for
its refusal to comply with resolution 264 (1969) and
for its persistent defiance of the authority of the United
Nations;

3. Decides that the continued occupation of the
Territory of Namibia by the South African authorities
constitutes an aggressive encroachment on the authority
of the United Nations, a violation of the territorial integrity and a denial of the political sovereignty of the
people of Namibia;

4. Recognizes the legitimacy of the struggle of the
people of Namibia against the illegal presence of
the South African authorities in the Territory;

5. Calls upon the Government of South Africa to
withdraw its administration from the Territory immediately and in any case before 4 October 1969;

6. Decides that in the event of failure on the part
of the Government of South Africa to comply with
the provisions of the preceding paragraph of the present
resolution, the Security Council will meet immediately
to determine upon effective measures in accordance
with the appropriate provisions of the relevant Chapters of the Charter of the United Nations;

7. Calls upon all States to refrain from all dealings
with the Government of South Africa purporting to act
on behalf of the Territory of Namibia;

8. Requests all States to increase their moral and
material assistance to the people of Namibia in their
struggle against foreign occupation;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to follow closely
the implementation of the present resolution and to
report to the Security Council as soon as possible;

10. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted at the 1497th meeting by 11 votes to none,
with 4 abstentions (Finland,
France, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of
America).

4 Ibid., Supplement for April, May and June 1969.

 
