Resolution 521 (1982)
of 19 September 1982

The Security Council,
Appalled at the massacre of Palestinian civilians in Beirut,

Having heard the report of the Secretary-General 42 at its
2396th meeting,

Noting that the Government of Lebanon has agreed to the
dispatch of United Nations observers to the sites of greatest
human suffering and losses in and around that city,

1. Condemns the criminal massacre of Palestinian c1vilians in Beirut;

2. Reaffirms once again its resolutions 512 (1982) and
513 (1982), which call for respect for the rights of the
civilian populations without any discrimination, and repudiates all acts of violence against those populations;

3. Authorizes the Secretary-General, as an immediate
step, to increase the number of United Nations observers in
and around Beirut from ten to fifty, and insists that there
shall be no interference with the deployment of the observers
and that they shall have full freedom of movement;

4. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with
the Government of Lebanon, to ensure the rapid deployment
of those observers in order that they may contribute in every
way possible within their mandate to the effort to ensure
full protection for the civilian populations;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, as a matter of urgency, to initiate appropriate consultations and, in particular, consultations with the Government of Lebanon on
additional steps which the Security Council might take.
including the possible deployment of United Nations forces.
to assist that Government in ensuring full protection for the
civilian populations in and around Beirut and requests him
to report to the Council within forty-eight hours;

6. Insists that all concerned must permit United Nations
observers and forces established by the Security Council in
Lebanon to be deployed and to discharge their mandates
and, in this connection, solemnly calls attention to the obligation of all Member States, under Article 25 of the Charter
of the United Nations, to accept and carry out the decisions
of the Council in accordance with the Charter;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the Security
Council informed on an urgent and continuing basis.

Adopted unanimously at the resumed 2396th meeting.


42 Ibid., Thirty-seventh Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1982, document S/15400.
