Resolution 572 (1985)
of 30 September 1985

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolution 568 (1985),

Having considered the report of the mission to
Botswana appointed by the Secretary-General in accord-
ance with resolution 568 (1985), 89

Having heard the statement of the Permanent
Representative of Botswana to the United Nations 90
expressing the deep concern of his Government over the
attack by South Africa against the territorial integrity of
Botswana,

Deeply concerned that the attack by South Africa
resulted in the loss of life and casualties to many
residents and refugees in Gaborone as well as the
destruction of and damage to property,

Noting with satisfaction the policy which Botswana
follows in regard to the granting of asylum to people
fleeing from the oppression of apartheid as well as its
respect for and adherence to the international conventions on the status of refugees,

Reaffirming its opposition to the system of apartheid
and the right of all countries to receive refugees fleeing
from the oppression of apartheid,

Noting further the urgent needs of Botswana to provide adequate shelter and facilities to refugees seeking
asylum in Botswana,

Convinced of the importance of international support
for Botswana,

1. Commends the Government of Botswana for its
steadfast opposition to apartheid and for the
humanitarian policies it is following in regard to
refugees;

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for having arranged to send a mission to
Botswana to assess the damage caused by South Africa’s
unprovoked and premeditated acts of aggression and for
proposing measures to strengthen Botswana’s capacity
to receive and provide assistance to South African
refugees as well as for determining the level of assistance
required by Botswana to cope with the situation
resulting from the attack;

3. Endorses the report of the mission to Botswana
under resolution 568 (1985);

4. Demands that South Africa pay full and adequate
compensation to Botswana for the loss of life and
damage to property resulting from its act of aggression;

5. Requests Member States, international organizations and financial institutions to assist Botswana in the
fields identified in the report of the mission to
Botswana;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to give the matter
of assistance to Botswana his continued attention and to
keep the Security Council informed;

7. Decides to remain seized of the situation.

Adopted unanimously at the
2609th meeting.


89 Ibid., document S/17453.
90 Ibid., Fortieth Year, 2609th meeting.
 