RESOLUTION 818 (1993)

Adopted by the Security Council at _ its 3198th meeting,
on 14 April 1993

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolutions 782 (1992) of 13 October 1992 and 797 (1992)
of 16 December 1992,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General dated 2 April 1993
(S/25518),

Welcoming the efforts of the Secretary-General to implement fully the
mandate entrusted to ONUMOZ,

Reiterating the importance it attaches to the General Peace Agreement for
Mozambique (S/24635) and to the timely fulfilment by all parties in good faith
of the obligations contained therein,

Seriously concerned at delays in the implementation of major aspects of
the Agreement,

Noting the efforts of the Government of Mozambique and the Resistencia
Nacional Mocambicana (RENAMO) to maintain the cease-fire,

1. Notes with appreciation the report of the Secretary-General dated
2 April 1993 (S/25518) and the recommendations contained therein;

 2. Calls upon the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to cooperate
fully with the Secretary-General and his Special Representative in the full
and timely implementation of the mandate of ONUMOZ;

3. Stresses its concern about the delays and difficulties which are
seriously affecting the timetable for implementation of the peace process
envisaged in the Agreement and in the report of the Secretary-General
containing the operational plan for ONUMOZ (S/24892 and Corr.1 and Add.1);

4. Urges the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to take urgent and
determined steps to comply with the commitments they entered into within the
framework of the above-mentioned Agreement, in particular with respect to the
concentration, assembly and demobilization of their armed troops and the
formation of the new unified armed forces;

5. Further urges the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO, in this
context, to initiate the training of the first elements of the new Mozambican
Defence Force (FADM) as soon as possible, and calls upon the countries which
have offered assistance to cooperate in this respect, with a view to the
earliest possible completion of the arrangements for such training;

6. Welcomes the initiatives and readiness of both parties to convene as
soon as possible a meeting between the President of the Republic of Mozambique
and the President of RENAMO, in order to address major issues pertaining to
peace in Mozambique;

7. Strongly appeals to RENAMO to ensure the effective and uninterrupted
functioning of the joint Commissions and monitoring mechanisms;

8. Strongly appeals also to both the Government of Mozambique and
RENAMO to allow timely investigation of all cease-fire violations and to
ensure the freedom of movement of people and goods as foreseen in the
Agreement;

9. Welcomes the Secretary-General's intention to ensure prompt
deployment of ONUMOZ military contingents, and calls upon troop-contributing
countries to expedite the dispatch of their troops earmarked for service in
ONUMOZ;

10. Strongly urges the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to finalize,
in consultation with the Secretary-General, the precise timetable for the full
implementation of the provisions of the General Peace Agreement, including the
separation, concentration and demobilization of forces, as well as for the
elections;

11. Stresses the importance it attaches to the early signature of the
status of forces agreement between the Government of Mozambique and the United
Nations to facilitate the free, efficient and effective operation of ONUMOZ;

12. Strongly urges both sides to guarantee ONUMOZ's freedom of movement
and verification capabilities pursuant to the commitments made under the
General Peace Agreement;


13. Appreciates the assistance and pledges made by Member States in
support of the peace process, and encourages the donor community to provide
appropriate and prompt assistance for the implementation of major aspects of
the Agreement;

14. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the Security Council informed
of developments regarding the full implementation of the provisions of the
General Peace Agreement, including on progress in the consultations with the
Government of Mozambique and RENAMO concerning the finalization of the precise
timetable for separation, concentration and demobilization of forces, as well
as for the elections and to submit a further report to the Council by
30 June 1993;

15. Expresses its confidence in the Secretary-General's Special
Representative and its appreciation for the work he has done to date in
coordinating all aspects of the Agreement;

16. Decides to remain seized of the matter.
