Resolution 577 (1985)
of 6 December 1985

The Security Council,

Having examined the report of the Security Council
Commission of Investigation established under resolution 571 (1985), 79

Having considered the statement of the Permanent
Representative of the People’s Republic of Angola to the
United Nations, 80

Gravely concerned at the numerous hostile and unprovoked acts of aggression committed by the racist
régime of South Africa violating the sovereignty,
airspace and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic
of Angola,

Grieved at the tragic loss of human life and concerned
about the damage to and destruction of property
resulting from repeated acts:of aggression committed by
the South African racist régime,

Convinced that these wanton acts of aggression by the
minority racist régime in South Africa form a consistent
and sustained pattern of violations aimed at destroying
the economic infrastructure of the People’s Republic of
Angola and weakening its support of the struggle of the
people of Namibia for freedom and national liberation.

Recalling its resolutions 571 (1985) and 574 (1985) by
which it, inter alia, strongly condemned South Africa’s
armed invasion perpetrated against the People’s
Republic of Angola and demanded that South Africa
should scrupulously respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Angola,

Reaffirming that the pursuance of these acts of aggression against Angola constitutes a threat to international peace and security,

Conscious of the need to take immediate and effective
steps for the prevention and removal of all threats to international peace and security,

1. Endorses the report of the Security Council Commission of Investigation established under resolution
571 (1985) and expresses its appreciation to the members
of the Commission;

2. Strongly condemns the racist South African
régime for its continued, intensified and unprovoked
acts of aggression against the People’s Republic of
Angola, which constitute a flagrant violation of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Angola;

3. Strongly condemns South Africa’s utilization of
the international Territory of Namibia as a springboard
for armed invasions and destabilization of the People’s
Republic of Angola;

4. Demands once again that South Africa cease
immediately all acts of aggression against the People’s
Republic of Angola and unconditionally withdraw
forthwith all forces occupying Angolan territory as well
as scrupulously respect the sovereignty, airspace, territorial integrity and independence of Angola;

5. Commends the People’s Republic of Angola for
its steadfast support for the people of Namibia in their
just and legitimate struggle against the illegal occupation
of their territory by South Africa and for the enjoyment
of their inalienable rights to self: determination and national independence;

6. Requests Member States urgently to extend all
necessary assistance to the People’s Republic of Angola,
in order to strengthen its defence capacity;

7. Demands that South Africa pay full and adequate
compensation to the People’s Republic of Angola for the
damage to life and property resulting from the acts of
aggression;

8. Requests Member States and _ international
organizations urgently to extend material and other
forms of assistance to the People’s Republic of Angola
in order to facilitate the immediate reconstruction of its
economic infrastructure;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor
developments in this situation and report to the Security
Council as necessary, but no later than 30 June 1986, on
the implementation of the present resolution and, in particular, of paragraphs 7 and 8 thereof;

10. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the
2631st meeting, following a
separate vote on operative
paragraph 6.



79 Ibid., document S/17648.
80 Ibid., Fortieth Year, 2631st meeting.


