Resolution 598 (1987)
of 20 July 1987

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolution 582 (1986),
Deeply concerned that, despite its calls for a cease-fire,

the conflict between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Iraq
continues unabated, with further heavy loss of human life
and material destruction,

Deploring the initiation and continuation of the conflict,
Deploring also the bombing of purely civilian population
centres, attacks on neutral shipping or civilian aircraft, the
violation of international humanitarian law and other laws
of armed conflict, and, in particular, the use of chemical
weapons contrary to obligations under the 1925 Geneva
Protocol, 28

Deeply concerned that further escalation and widening of
the conflict may take place,

Determined to bring to an end all military actions
between Iran and Iraq,

Convinced that a comprehensive, just, honourable and
durable settlement should be achieved between Iran and
Iraq,

Recalling the provisions of the Charter of the United
Nations, and in particular the obligation of all Member
States to settle their international disputes by peaceful
means in such a manner that international peace and
security and justice are not endangered,

Determining that there exists a breach of the peace as
regards the conflict between Iran and Iraq,

Acting under Articles 39 and 40 of the Charter,

1. Demands that, as a first step towards a negotiated
settlement, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Iraq observe an
immediate cease-fire, discontinue all military actions on
land, at sea and in the air, and withdraw all forces to the
internationally recognized boundaries without delay:

2. Requests the Secretary-General to dispatch a team of
United Nations observers to verify, confirm and supervise
the cease-fire and withdrawal and further requests the
Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements in
consultation with the Parties and to submit a report thereon
to the Security Council;

3. Urges that prisoners-of-war be released and repatriated without delay after the cessation of active hostilities
in accordance with the Third Geneva Convention of
12 August 1949; 31

4. Calls upon Iran and Iraq to co-operate with the
Secretary-General in implementing this resolution and in
mediation efforts to achieve a comprehensive, just and
honourable settlement, acceptable to both sides. of all
outstanding issues, in accordance with the principles contained in the Charter of the United Nations;

5. Calls upon all other States to exercise the utmost
restraint and to refrain from any act which may lead to
further escalation and widening of the conflict. and thus to
facilitate the implementation of the present resolution:

6. Requests the Secretary-General to explore, in consultation with Iran and Iraq, the question of entrusting an
impartial body with inquiring into responsibility for the
conflict and to report to the Council as soon as possible;

7. Recognizes the magnitude of the damage inflicted
during the conflict and the need for reconstruction efforts,
with appropriate international assistance, once the conflict
is ended and, in this regard, requests the Secretary-General
to assign a team of experts to study the question of
reconstruction and to report to the Council:

8. Further requests the Secretary-General to examine,
in consultation with Iran and Iraq and with other States of
the region, measures to enhance the security and stability of
the region;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the Council
informed on the implementation of this resolution;

10. Decides to meet again as necessary to consider
further steps to ensure compliance with this resolution.

Adopted unanimously at the
2750th meeting.


31 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 972.