Resolution 874 (1993)
of 14 October 1993

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolutions 822 (1993) of 30 April 1993 and 853
(1993) of 29 July 1993, and recalling the statement read by the
President of the Security Council, on behalf of the Council, on 18
August 1993, 9

Having considered the letter dated 1 October 1993 from the
Chairman of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
Minsk Conference on Nagomy Karabakh addressed to the President of
the Security Council, 10

Expressing its serious concern that a continuation of the conflict in
and around the Nagorny Karabakh region of the Azerbaijani Republic,
and of the tensions between the Republic of Armenia and the Azerbaijani Republic, would endanger peace and security in the region,

Noting the high-level meetings which took place in Moscow on 8
October 1993 and expressing the hope that they will contribute to the
improvement of the situation and the peaceful settlement of the
conflict,

Reaffirming the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and
of all other States in the region,

Reaffirming also the inviolability of international borders and the
inadmissibility of the use of force for the acquisition of territory,

Expressing once again its grave concern at the human suffering the
conflict has caused and at the serious humanitarian emergency in the
region, and expressing in particular its grave concern at the displacement of large numbers of civilians in Azerbaijan,

1. Calls upon the parties concerned to make effective and permanent
the cease-fire established as a result of the direct contacts undertaken
with the assistance of the Government of the Russian Federation in
support of the Minsk Group of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe;

2. Reiterates again its full support for the peace process being
pursued within the framework of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe, and for the tireless efforts of the Minsk Group,

3. Welcomes and commends to the parties the “Adjusted timetable
of urgent steps to implement Security Council resolutions 822 (1993)
and 853 (1993)! set out on 28 September 1993 at the meeting of the
Minsk Group and submitted to the parties concerned by the Chairman
of the Group with the full support of nine other members of the Group,
and calls on the parties to accept it;

4. Expresses the conviction that all other pending questions arising
from the conflict and not directly addressed in the “Adjusted timetable”
should be settled expeditiously through peaceful negotiations in the
context of the Minsk process;

5. Calls for the immediate implementation of the reciprocal and
urgent steps provided for in the Minsk Group's “Adjusted timetable”,
including the withdrawal of forces from recently occupied territories
and the removal of all obstacles to communications and transportation;

6. Calls also for an early convening of the Minsk Conference for the
purpose of arriving at a negotiated settlement to the conflict as provided
for in the “Adjusted timetable”, in conformity with the 24 March 1992
mandate of the Council of Ministers of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to respond favourably to an
invitation to send a representative to attend the Minsk Conference and
to provide all possible assistance for the substantive negotiations that
will follow the opening of the Conference;

8. Supports the monitoring mission developed by the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe;

9. Calls on all parties to refrain from all violations of international
humanitarian law, and renews its call in resolutions 822 (1993) and
853 (1993) for unimpeded access for international humanitarian relief
efforts in all areas affected by the conflict,

10. Urges all States in the region to refrain from any hostile acts
and from any interference or intervention which would lead to the
widening of the conflict and undermine peace and security in the
region;

11. Requests the Secretary-General and relevant international
agencies to provide urgent humanitarian assistance to the affected
civilian population and to assist refugees and displaced persons to return
to their homes in security and dignity;

12. Requests the Secretary-General, the Chairman-in-Office of
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the
Chairman of the Minsk Conference to continue to report to the Council
on the progress of the Minsk process and on all aspects of the situation
on the ground, and on present and future cooperation between the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the United
Nations in this regard;

13. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3292nd meeting.



10 Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-eighth
Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1993,
document S/26522.
11 Ibid., document S/26522, annex.
