RESOLUTION 802 (1993)

Adopted by the Security Council at its
3163rd meeting, on 25 January 1993

 
The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolution 713 (1991) of 25 September 1991 and all
subsequent relevant resolutions,

Reaffirming in particular its commitment to the United Nations
peace-keeping plan (S/23280, annex III),

Deeply concerned by the information provided by the Secretary-General to
the Security Council on 25 January 1993 on the rapid and violent deterioration
of the situation in Croatia as a result of military attacks by Croatian armed
forces on the areas under the protection of the United Nations Protection
Force (UNPROFOR),

Strongly condemning those attacks which have led to casualties and loss
of life in UNPROFOR, as well as among the civilian population,

Deeply concerned also by the lack of cooperation in recent months by the
Serb local authorities in the areas under the protection of UNPROFOR, by the
recent seizure by them of heavy weapons under UNPROFOR control, and by threats
to widen the conflict,

1. Demands the immediate cessation of hostile activities by Croatian
armed forces within or adjacent to the United Nations Protected Areas and the
withdrawal of the Croatian armed forces from these areas;

2. Strongly condemns the attacks by these forces against UNPROFOR in
the conduct of its duty of protecting civilians in the United Nations
Protected Areas and demands their immediate cessation;

3. Demands also that the heavy weapons seized from the
UNPROFOR-controlled storage areas be returned immediately to UNPROFOR;

4. Demands that all parties and others concerned comply strictly with
the cease-fire arrangements already agreed and cooperate fully and
unconditionally in the implementation of the United Nations peace-keeping plan
(S/23280, annex III), including the disbanding and demobilization of Serb
Territorial Defence units or other units of similar functions;

5. Expresses its condolences to the families of the UNPROFOR personnel
who have lost their lives;

6. Demands that all parties and others concerned respect fully the
safety of United Nations personnel;

7. Invites the Secretary-General to take all necessary steps to ensure
the safety of the UNPROFOR personnel concerned;

8. Calls upon all parties and others concerned to cooperate with
UNPROFOR in resolving all remaining issues connected with the implementation
of the peace-keeping plan, including allowing civilian traffic freely to use
the Maslenica crossing;

9. Calls again upon all parties and others concerned to cooperate fully
with the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia and to refrain from
any actions or threats which might undermine the current efforts aimed at
reaching a political settlement;

10. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.
