Resolution 668 (1990)
of 20 September 1990

The Security Council,

Convinced of the need to find an early, just and lasting
peaceful solution of the Cambodia conflict,

Noting that the Paris Conference on Cambodia, which
met from 30 July to 30 August 1989, made progress in
elaborating a wide variety of elements necessary for reaching a comprehensive political settlement,

Taking note with appreciation of the continuing efforts
of China, France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the United States of America, which have resulted in
the framework for a comprehensive political settlement of
the Cambodia conflict, 115

Also taking note with appreciation of the efforts of the
countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations
and other countries involved in promoting the search for a
comprehensive political settlement,

Further taking note with appreciation of the efforts of
Indonesia and France as Co-Presidents of the Paris Conference on Cambodia and of all participants in the Conference to facilitate the restoration of peace to Cambodia,

Noting that these efforts are aimed at enabling the Cambodian people to exercise their inalienable right to self-determination through free and fair elections organized and
conducted by the United Nations in a neutral political
environment with full respect for the national sovereignty
of Cambodia,

1. Endorses the framework for a comprehensive political settlement of the Cambodia conflict'!S and encourages
the continuing efforts of China, France, the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of
America in this regard;

2. Welcomes the acceptance of this framework in its
entirety by all the Cambodian parties, as the basis for
settling the Cambodia conflict, at the informal meeting of
the Cambodian parties at Jakarta on 10 September 19906
and their commitment to it;

3. Also welcomes the commitment of the Cambodian
parties, in full co-operation with all other participants in
the Paris Conference on Cambodia, to elaborating this
framework into a comprehensive political settlement
through the processes of the Conference;

4. Welcomes, in particular, the agreement reached by
all Cambodian parties at Jakarta 116 to form a Supreme
National Council as the unique legitimate body and source
of authority in which, throughout the transitional period,
the independence, national sovereignty and unity of Cambodia is embodied;

5. Urges the members of the Supreme National Council, in full accord with the framework document, to elect
the Chairman of the Council as soon as possible, so as to
implement the agreement referred to in paragraph 4 above;

6. Notes that the Supreme National Council will therefore represent Cambodia externally and it is to designate
its representatives to occupy the seat of Cambodia at the
United Nations, in the United Nations specialized agencies
and in other international institutions and international
conferences;

7. Urges all parties to the conflict to exercise maximum self-restraint so as to create the peaceful climate
required to facilitate the achievement and the implementation of a comprehensive political settlement;

8. Calls upon the Co-Presidents of the Paris Conference to intensify their consultations with a view to reconvening the Conference, whose task will be to elaborate and
adopt the comprehensive political settlement and to draw
up a detailed plan of implementation in accord with the
above-mentioned framework;

9. Urges the Supreme National Council, all Cambodians and all parties to the conflict to co-operate fully in this
process;

10. Encourages the Secretary-General to continue,
within the context of preparations for reconvening the
Paris Conference and on the basis of the present resolution,
preparatory studies to assess the resource implications,
timing and other considerations relevant to the United
Nations role;

11. Calls upon all States to support the achievement of
a comprehensive political settlement as outlined in the
above-mentioned framework.

Adopted unanimously at the
2491st meeting.


115 Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-fifth Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1990, document S/21689, annex.
116 Ibid., document S/21732, annex.
