RESOLUTION 781 (1992)


Adopted by the Security Council at its 3122nd meeting, on 9 October 1992

Reaffirming its resolution 713 (1991) and all subsequent relevant
resolutions,

Determined to ensure the safety of humanitarian flights to Bosnia and
Herzegovina,

Noting the readiness of the parties, expressed in the framework of the
London Conference, to take appropriate steps in order to ensure the safety of
humanitarian flights and their commitment at that Conference to a ban on
military flights,

Recalling in this context the Joint Declaration 1/ signed at Geneva on
30 September 1992 by the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and in particular paragraph 7
thereof,

Recalling also the agreement reached. on air issues at Geneva on
15 September 1992 among all the parties concerned in the framework of the
Working Group on Confidence and Security-building and Verification Measures of
the London Conference, 2/

Alarmed at reports that military flights over the territory of Bosnia and
Herzegovina are none the less continuing,

Noting the letter of 4 October 1992 from the President of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina addressed to the President of the Security Council, 3/

Considering that the establishment of a ban on military flights in the
airspace of Bosnia and Herzegovina constitutes an essential element for the
safety of the delivery of humanitarian assistance and a decisive step for the
cessation of hostilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina,

Acting pursuant to the provisions of resolution 770 (1992) aimed at
ensuring the safety of the delivery of humanitarian assistance in Bosnia and
Herzegovina,

1. Decides to establish a ban on military flights in the airspace of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, this ban not to apply to United Nations Protection
Force flights or to other flights in support of United Nations operations,
including humanitarian assistance;

2. Requests the United Nations Protection Force to monitor compliance
with the ban on military flights, including the placement of observers where
necessary at airfields in the territory of the former Yugoslavia;

3. Also requests the United Nations Protection Force to ensure, through
an appropriate mechanism for approval and inspection, that the purpose of
flights to and from Bosnia and Herzegovina other than those banned by
Paragraph 1 above is consistent with Security Council resolutions;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Council on a
periodic basis on the implementation of the present resolution and to report
immediately any evidence of violations;

5. Calls upon States to take nationally or through regional agencies or
arrangements all measures necessary to provide assistance to the United
Nations Protection Force, based on technical monitoring and other
capabilities, for the purposes of paragraph 2 above;

6. Undertakes to examine without delay all the information brought to
its attention concerning the implementation of the ban on military flights in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in the case of violations, to consider urgently
the further measures necessary to enforce this ban;

7. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.


1/ S/24476, annex.
2/ S/24634, annex.
3/ S/24616.

 

 
