Resolution 591 (1986)
of 28 November 1986

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolution 418 (1977), in which it decided open mandatory arms embargo against South Africa.
Recalling its resolution 421 (1977), by which it entrusted a committee consisting of all the members of the
Council with the task of, among other things, studying
ways and means by which the mandatory arms embargo
could be made more effective against South Africa and to
make recommendations to the Council,

Recalling its resolution 473 (1980) on the question of
South Africa,

Recalling the 1980 report of the Security Council Committee established by resolution 421 (1977) concerning the
question of South Africa on ways and means of making
the mandatory arms embargo against South Africa more
effective, 70

Recalling resolution 558 (1984), in which all States
were requested to refrain from importing arms, ammunition of all types and military vehicles produced in South
Africa,

Recalling further resolution 473 (1980), by which the
Security Council requested the Security Council Committee established by resolution 421 (1977) to redouble its efforts to secure full implementation of the arms embargo
against South Africa by recommending measures to close
all loopholes in the arms embargo, reinforce it and make it
more comprehensive,

Reaffirming its recognition of the legitimacy of the
struggle of the South African people for the elimination of
apartheid and the establishment of a democratic society in
accordance with their inalienable human and political
rights as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,

Strongly condemning the racist régime of South Africa
for further aggravating the situation and its massive
repression against all opponents of apartheid, for the killing of peaceful demonstrators and political detainees, and
for its defiance of General Assembly and Security Council
resolutions, in particular Security Council resolution
417 (1977),

Reaffirming its resolution 418 (1977) and stressing the
continuing need for strict application of all its provisions,

Mindful of its responsibilities under the Charter for the
maintenance of international peace and security,

1. Urges States to take steps to ensure that components of embargoed items do not reach the South African
military establishment and police through third countries;

2. Calls upon States to prohibit the export of spare
parts for embargoed aircraft and other military equipment
belonging to South Africa and any official involvement in
the maintenance and service of such equipment:

3. Urges all States to prohibit the export to South
Africa of items which they have reason to believe are destined for the military and/or police forces of South Africa.
have a military capacity and are intended for military purposes, namely, aircraft, aircraft engines, aircraft parts,
electronic and telecommunication equipment, computers
and four-wheel drive vehicles;

4. Requests of all States that henceforth the term
“arms and related materiel! referred to in resolution
418 (1977) shall include, in addition to all nuclear, strategic and conventional weapons, all military, paramilitary
police vehicles and equipment, as well as weapons and ammunitions, spare parts and supplies for the aforementioned and the sale or transfer thereof;

8. Requests all States to implement strictly its resolution 418 (1977) and to retrain from any co-operation in the
nuclear field with South Africa which will contribute to
the manufacture and development by South Africa of nu-
clear weapons or nuclear explosive devices:

6. Renews its request to all States to refrain from importing arms, ammunition of all types and military vehicles produced in South Africa;

7 Calls upon all States to prohibit the import or entry
of all South African armaments for display in international fairs and exhibitions under their jurisdiction;

8. Further calls upon States which have not done so to
put an end to exchanges as well as to visits and exchanges
of visits by government personnel, when such visits and
exchanges maintain or increase South Africa’s military or
police capabilities:

9. Further calls upon all States to refrain from participating in any activities in South Africa which they have
reason to believe might contribute to its military capability;

10. Requests all States to ensure that their national
legislation or comparable policy directives guarantee that
specific provisions to implement resolution 418 (1977) include penalties to deter violations;

11. Further requests all States to adopt measures to investigate violations, prevent future circumventions and
strengthen their machinery for the implementation of
resolution 418 (1977) with a view to the effective monitoring and verification of transfers of arms and other equipment in violation of the arms embargo;

12. Further requests all States, including States non-members of the United Nations, to act in accordance with
the provisions of the present resolution;

13. Further requests the Security Council Committee
established by resolution 421 (1977) concerning the question of South Africa, in pursuance of resolution
418 (1977), to continue its efforts to secure full implementation of the arms embargo against South Africa in order
to make it more effective;

14. Further requests the Secretary-General to report
to the Security Council on the progress of the implementaion of the present resolution, the first report to be submit-
ted as soon as possible but in any event no later than 30
June 1987,

15. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted by consensus at the
2723rd meeting.




