Resolution 889 (1993)
of 15 December 1993

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolution 186 (1964) of 4 March 1964 and other
relevant resolutions,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of 22
November and 13 December 1993 17 submitted pursuant to resolutions
831 (1993) of 27 May 1993 and 839 (1993) of 11 June 1993 in
connection with the Security Council's comprehensive reassessment of
the United Nations operation in Cyprus,

Noting the recommendation by the Secretary-General that the
Security Council extend the stationing of the United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus in its present strength and structure for a
further period of six months,

Noting also that the Government of Cyprus has agreed that, in view
of the prevailing conditions in the island, it is necessary to keep the
Force in Cyprus beyond 15 December 1993,

1. Extends once more the stationing in Cyprus of the United Nations
Peace-keeping Force established under resolution 186 (1964) for a
further period ending on 15 June 1994,

2. Notes the conclusion of the Secretary-General that the present
circumstances do not allow for any modification in the structure and
strength of the force, and requests him to keep those matters under
constant review with a view to the further possible restructuring of the
Force,

3. Calls upon the military authorities on both sides to ensure that no
incidents occur along the buffer zone and to extend their full cooperation to the Force;

4. Urges all concerned once again to commit themselves to a
significant reduction in the number of foreign troops in the Republic of
Cyprus and a reduction of defence spending in the Republic of Cyprus
to help restore confidence between the parties and as a first step
towards the withdrawal of non-Cypriot forces as set out in the set of
ideas,

5. Also calls upon the military authorities on both sides, in tine with
paragraph 3 of resolution 839 (1993), to begin discussions with the
Force without further delay with a view to entering into mutual
commitments to prohibit along the cease-fire lines live ammunition or
weapons other than those which are hand-held, and to prohibit also the
firing of weapons within sight or hearing of the buffer zone;

6. Further calls upon the military authorities on both sides to
cooperate with the Force in extending the 1989 unmanning agreement
to cover all areas of the buffer zone where the two sides are in close
proximity to each other,
7. Urges the leaders of both communities to promote tolerance and
reconciliation between the two communities as recommended in
paragraph 102 of the report of the Secretary-General of 22 November
1993; 18

8. Reaffirms that the status quo is unacceptable, and encourages the
Secretary-General and his Special Representative to pursue the
Secretary-General's mission of good offices on the basis of the set of
ideas and the package of confidence-building measures relating to
Varosha and Nicosia International Airport referred to in paragraph 45
of the above-mentioned report of the Secretary-General;

9. Notes with interest the confirmation by the team of international
economic experts that the package of confidence-building measures
holds significant and proportionate benefits for both sides, and looks
forward to receiving the full reports of the economic and civil aviation
experts,

10. Welcomes in this context the decision of the Secretary-
General to resume intensive contacts with both sides and with others
concerned and to concentrate at this stage on achieving an agreement
on the package of confidence-building measures, intended to facilitate
the political process towards an overall settlement;

11. Also welcomes the declared support of the Government of
Turkey for the package of confidence-building measures, would also
welcome a statement of support for that package by the Government of
Greece, and expresses the hope that rapid progress will now be made
on achieving agreement on the package,

12. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the
Security Council by the end of February 1994 on the outcome of his
efforts to achieve an agreement on the package of confidence-building
measures;

13. _ Decides to undertake, on the basis of that report, a thorough
review of the situation, including the future role of the United Nations,
and, if necessary, to consider alternative ways to promote the imple-
mentation of its resolutions on Cyprus.

Adopted unanimously at the 3322nd meeting.


17 Ibid., documents S/26777 and Add.1.

18 Ibid., document S/26777.
