Resolution 826 (1993)
of 20 May 1993

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolutions 668 (1990) of 20 September 1990, 745
(1992) of 28 February 1992, 810 (1993) of 8 March 1993 and other
relevant resolutions,

Taking note of the reports of the Secretary-General of 3 May 1993 9
and 15 May 1993, 10

Expressing its strong support for the almost five million Cambodians who, in spite of violence and intimidation, have registered to vote
in the election of a constituent assembly, and have broadly and actively
participated in the electoral campaign,

Recognizing the great importance of His Royal Highness Prince
Norodom Sihanouk, Chairman of the Supreme National Council,
continuing his invaluable efforts in Cambodia to achieve national
reconciliation and restore peace,

1. Approves the reports of the Secretary-General of 3 May 1993° and
15 May 1993; 10

2. Expresses its satisfaction with the arrangements made by the
United Nations for the conduct of the election for the constituent
assembly in Cambodia described in the report of the Secretary-General
of 15 May 1993;

3. Demands that all the parties abide by the agreements on a
comprehensive political settlement to the Cambodia conflict signed in
Paris on 23 October 1991‘ and give the United Nations Transitional
Authority in Cambodia the full cooperation required under them;

4. Commends those participating in the election campaign in
accordance with the Paris agreements despite the violence and
intimidation in order that the Cambodian people may have an opportunity to choose freely their own government;

5. Deplores all acts of non-cooperation with the Paris agreements
and condemns all acts of violence committed on political and ethnic
grounds, intimidation and attacks on Authority personnel;
6. Expresses its full support for the measures taken by the Authority
to protect the safety of its personnel and underlines the need for the
Authority to continue its efforts in this regard;

7. Demands that all parties take all actions necessary to safeguard the
lives and the security of Authority personnel throughout Cambodia, and
desist from all threats or intimidation against Authority personnel and
from any interference with them in the performance of their mandate;

8. Expresses its appreciation for the positive efforts and the
achievements of the Authority in preparation for the elections, in
respect both of the registration of candidates and parties and of the
holding of the electoral campaign, albeit under difficult conditions;

9. Fully supports the decision of the Secretary-General that the
election be held as scheduled in accordance with the decision of the
Supreme National Council endorsed by the Security Council in its
resolution 810 (1993);

10. Calls on the Authority to continue to work in accordance
with resolution 810 (1993) to ensure a neutral political environment
conducive to the holding of free and fair elections;

11. Reaffirms its determination to endorse the results of the
election for the constituent assembly provided that the United Nations
certifies it free and fair;

12. Reminds all the Cambodian parties of their obligation under
the Paris agreements fully to comply with the results of the election;

13. Warns that the Council will respond appropriately should any
of the parties fail to honour its obligations;

14. Reaffirms its readiness to support fully the constituent
assembly and the process of drawing up a constitution and establishing
a new govemment for all Cambodia and to support subsequent efforts
to promote national reconciliation and peace- building;

15. Recognizes that the Cambodians themselves bear primary
responsibility for the implementation of the Paris agreements and for
the political future and well-being of their own country, and reaffirms
that all Cambodian parties are expected to honour their obligations
under the Paris agreements and participate constructively and peace-
fully in the political process after the election;

16. Requests the Secretary-General to report promptly to the
Council on the holding and results of the election, including on the
conduct of the parties as regards their obligations under the Paris
agreements and, if necessary, to recommend any initiative and/or
measures conducive to ensuring their full respect by all parties;

17. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3213th meeting.
Decisions


8 See Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-eighth
Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1993.
9Ibid., document S/25719.
10 Ibid., document S/25784.