Resolution 750 (1992)
of 10 April 1992

The Security Council,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of
3 April 1992 on his mission of good offices in Cyprus, 294

Reaffirming its previous resolutions on Cyprus,

Noting with concern that there has been no progress in
completing the set of ideas for an overall framework agreement
since the Secretary-General’s report of 8 October 1991 295 and
that in some areas there has even been regression,

Welcoming the assurances given to the Secretary-General
over the past two months by the leaders of the two communities and the Prime Ministers of Greece and Turkey of their
desire to cooperate with him and his representatives,

1. Commends the Secretary-General for his efforts, and
expresses its appreciation for his report of 3 April 1992 on his
mission of good offices in Cyprus; 294

2. Reaffirms the position, set out in resolutions 649
(1990) of 12 March 1990 and 716 (1991) of 11 October 1991,
that a Cyprus settlement must be based on a State of Cyprus
with a single sovereignty and international personality and a
single citizenship, with its independence and territorial integrity
safeguarded, and comprising two politically equal communities
as defined in paragraph 11 of the Secretary-General’s report in
a bi-communal and bi-zonal federation, and that such a
settlement must exclude union in whole or in part with any
other country or any form of partition or secession;

3. Calls again upon the parties to adhere fully to these
principles and to negotiate without introducing concepts that
are at variance with them;

4. Endorses the set of ideas described in paragraphs 17
to 25 and 27 of the Secretary-General’s report as an appropriate basis for reaching an overall framework agreement, subject
to the work that needs to be done on the outstanding issues, in
particular on territorial adjustments and displaced persons,
being brought to a conclusion as an integrated package
mutually agreed upon by both communities;

5. Requests all concerned to cooperate fully with the
Secretary-General and his representatives in clarifying without
delay these outstanding issues;

6. Reaffirms that the Secretary-General’s mission of good
offices is with the two communities, whose participation in the
process is on an equal footing to assure the well-being and
security of both communities,

7. Decides to remain seized of the Cyprus question on an
ongoing and direct basis in support of the effort to complete
the set of ideas referred to in paragraph 4 above and to
conclude an overall framework agreement;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to pursue his intensive
efforts to complete the set of ideas referred to in paragraph 4
above during May and June 1992, to keep the Council closely
informed of his efforts and to seek the Council’s direct support
whenever necessary;

9. Continues to believe that, following the satisfactory
conclusion of the Secretary-General’s intensive efforts to
complete the set of ideas referred to in paragraph 4 above, the
convening of a high-level international meeting chaired by the
Secretary-General in which the two communities and Greece
and Turkey would participate represents an effective mechanism for concluding an overall framework agreement;

10. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a full
report to the Council on the outcome of his efforts by July 1992
at the latest and to make specific recommendations for
overcoming any outstanding difficulty;

11. Reaffirms the important mandate entrusted to the
United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus and looks
forward to receiving the report on the Force that the Secretary-General proposes to submit in May 1992,

Adopted unanimously at the 3067th
meeting.
