cease its armed attacks. The Council expresses its condemnation of
such criminal attacks and stresses that those responsible must be held
accountable. It urges UNITA leaders to make sure that its forces
abide by the rules of international humanitarian law.

“The Council emphasizes once again the imperative need for an
immediate cease-fire throughout the country. It reiterates its appeal
to the two parties, in particular UNITA, to re-initiate the interrupted
peace talks with a view to the full implementation of the Peace
Accords for Angola.”

At its 3254th meeting, on 15 July 1993, the Council decided to
invite the representatives of Angola, Egypt, Namibia, Portugal, the
United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe to participate,
without vote, in the discussion of the item entitled “The situation in
Angola: further report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations
Angola Verification Mission II (UNA VEM II) (S/26060 and Add.1 and
2)”.

Resolution 851 (1993)
of 15 July 1993

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolutions 696 (1991) of 30 May 1991, 747 (1992)
of 24 March 1992, 785 (1992) of 30 October 1992, 793 (1992) of 30
November 1992, 804 (1993) of 29 January 1993, 811 (1993) of 12
March 1993, 823 (1993) of 30 April 1993 and 834 (1993) of 1 June
1993,

Having considered the further report of the Secretary-General of 12
and 14 July 1993, 15

Recalling the statement made by the President of the Security
Council on 8 June 1993, 13

Welcoming the Declaration on the Situation in Angola adopted by
the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization
of African Unity at its twenty-ninth ordinary session, 16 held at Cairo
from 28 to 30 June 1993, and the resolution on the situation in Angola
adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African
Unity at its fifty-eighth ordinary session, 17 held at Cairo from 21 to 26
June 1993,

Welcoming also the joint statement issued in Moscow on 8 July
1993 by the representatives of Portugal, the Russian Federation and the
United States of America,'* the three observer States to the Angolan
peace process,

Taking note of the Special Declaration on Angola adopted by the
World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25
June 1993,

Expressing grave concern at the deterioration of the political and
military situation, and noting with consternation the further deterioration of an already grave humanitarian situation,

Deeply concerned that the peace talks remain suspended and that a
cease-fire has not been established,

Welcoming and supporting the efforts of the Secretary-General and
his Special Representative aimed at the earliest resolution of the
Angolan crisis through negotiations,

Emphasizing the importance of a continued and effective United
Nations presence in Angola with a view to fostering the peace process
and advancing the implementation of the Peace Accords for Angola,

Reaffirming its commitment to preserve the unity and territorial
integrity of Angola,

1. Welcomes the further report of the Secretary-General of 12 and 14
July 1993, and decides to extend the existing mandate of the United
Nations Angola Verification Mission II for a period of two months,
until 15 September 1993,

2. Reiterates its readiness to consider taking action promptly, at any
time within the period of the mandate authorized by the present
resolution, on the recommendation of the Secretary-General, to expand
substantially the United Nations presence in Angola in the event of
significant progress in the peace process;

3. Stresses the importance of the functions of good offices and
mediation by the Mission and the Special Representative, with the goal
of restoring a cease-fire and reinstating the peace process for the full
implementation of the Peace Accords for Angola;

4. Reiterates its demand that the National Union for the Total
Independence of Angola accept unreservedly the results of the
democratic elections of 1992 and abide fully by the Peace Accords,

5. Condemns the National Union for continuing military actions,
which are resulting in increased suffering for the civilian population of
Angola and damage to the Angolan economy and again demands that
it immediately cease such actions,

6. Also condemns the National Union's repeated attempts to seize
additional territory and its failure to withdraw its troops from the
locations which it has occupied since the resumption of the hostilities,
and demands once again that it immediately do so and agree without
delay to return its troops to United Nations-monitored areas as a
transitional measure pending full implementation of the Peace Accords;

7. Reaffirms that such occupation is a grave violation of the Peace
Accords and is incompatible with the goal of peace through agreements and reconciliation;

8. Stresses the fundamental need to re-initiate without delay the
peace talks under United Nations auspices with a view to the immediate
establishment of a cease-fire throughout the country and the full
implementation of the Peace Accords and relevant resolutions of the
Security Council;

9. Takes note of statements by the National Union that it is prepared
to resume peace negotiations and demands that it act accordingly,

10. Welcomes the continued disposition of the Government of
Angola to reach a peaceful settlement of the conflict in conformity with
the Peace Agreements and the relevant Security Council resolutions,
11. Urges all States to refrain from any action which directly or
indirectly could jeopardize the implementation of the Peace Accords,
especially from providing any form of direct or indirect military
assistance to the National Union, or any other support to the National
Union inconsistent with the peace process,

12. Expresses its readiness to consider the imposition of
measures under the Charter of the United Nations, including a
embargo on the sale or supply to the National Union of arms

and related matériel and other military assistance, to prevent it from
pursuing its military actions, unless by 15 September 1993 the
Secretary-General has reported that an effective cease-fire has been
established and that agreement has been reached on the full implementation of the Peace Accords and relevant Security Council resolutions,

13. Recognizes the legitimate rights of the Government of
Angola, and in this regard welcomes the provision of assistance to the
Government in support of the democratic process;

14. Welcomes the steps taken by the Secretary-General to
implement the emergency humanitarian assistance plan,

15. Takes note of statements by the National Union that it will
cooperate in ensuring the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian
assistance to all Angolans and demands that it act accordingly,

16. Calls upon all Member States, United Nations agencies and
non-governmental organizations to respond swiftly and generously to
the Secretary-General's appeal in implementation of the above-
mentioned plan and to accord or increase humanitarian relief assistance
to Angola, and encourages the Special Representative of the Secretary-
General to continue to coordinate the provision of humanitarian
assistance;

17. Demands that the National Union continue to extend its
cooperation in ensuring the immediate evacuation of foreign nationals
and their family members from Huambo and other locations which it
has occupied;

18. Reiterates its strong condemnation of the attack by National
Union forces on 27 May 1993 on a train carrying civilians, and
reaffirms that such criminal attacks are clear violations of international
humanitarian law;

19. Reiterates its appeal to both parties strictly to abide by
applicable: rules of international humanitarian law, including to
guarantee unimpeded access for humanitarian assistance to the civilian
population in need, and commends in particular the efforts of the
Secretary-General and his Special Representative to establish agreed
humanitarian relief corridors;

20. Also reiterates its appeal to both parties to take all necessary
measures to ensure the security and safety of personnel of the United
Nations Angola Verification Mission II, as well as of the personnel
involved in humanitarian relief operations,

21. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to it as soon as the
situation warrants, and in any case before 15 September 1993, a report
on the situation in Angola with his recommendation for the further role
of the United Nations in the peace process and, in the meantime, to
keep the Council regularly informed of developments,

22. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit as soon as
possible the budgetary implications of bringing the Mission up to its full
strength as mandated in resolution 696 (1991);

23. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3254th meeting.


 

14 See Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-eighth
Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1993.
15 Ibid., documents S/26060 and Add.1 and 2.
16 Ibid., document S/26076.
17 Ibid., document S/26081.
18 Ibid., document S/26064.
