Resolution 568 (1985)
of 21 June 1985

The Security Council,

Taking note of the letter dated 17 June 1985 from the
Permanent Representative of Botswana to the United
Nations 82 and having heard the statement of the Minister
for External Affairs of Botswana 83 concerning the recent acts of aggression by the racist régime of South
Africa against the Republic of Botswana,

Expressing its shock and indignation at the loss of
human life, the injuries inflicted, and the extensive
damage as a result of that action,

Affirming the urgent need to safeguard the territorial
integrity of Botswana and maintain peace and security in
southern Africa,

Reaffirming the obligation of all States to refrain in
their international relations from the threat or use of
force against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
any State,

Expressing its profound concern that the racist régime
resorted to the use of military force against the
defenceless and peace-loving nation of Botswana,

Gravely concerned that such acts of aggression can
only serve to aggravate the already volatile and
dangerous situation in southern Africa,

Bearing in mind that this latest incident is one in a
series of provocative actions carried out by South Africa
against Botswana and that the racist régime has declared
that it will continue and escalate such attacks,

Commending Botswana for its unflagging adherence
to the conventions relating to the status of refugees 84 and
of stateless persons 85 and for the sacrifices it has made
and continues to make in giving asylum to victims of
apartheid,

1. Strongly condemns South Africa’s recent unprovoked and unwarranted military attack on the
capital of Botswana as an act of aggression against that
country and a gross violation of its territorial integrity
and national sovereignty;

2. Further condemns all acts of aggression, provocation and harassment, including murder, blackmail, kidnapping and destruction of property committed by the
racist régime of South Africa against Botswana;

3. Demands the immediate, total and unconditional
cessation of all acts of aggression by South Africa
against Botswana;

4. Denounces and rejects racist South Africa’s practice of “hot pursuit” to terrorize and destabilize
Botswana and other countries in southern Africa;

5. Demands full and adequate compensation by
South Africa to Botswana for the damage to life and
property resulting from such acts of aggression;

6. Affirms Botswana’s right to receive and give sanctuary to the victims of apartheid in accordance with its
traditional practice, humanitarian principles and international obligations;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to enter into immediate consultation with the Government of Botswana
and the relevant United Nations agencies on measures to
be undertaken to assist the Government of Botswana in
ensuring the safety, protection and welfare of the
refugees in Botswana;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to send a mission
to visit Botswana for the purpose of:

(a) Assessing the damage caused by South Africa’s
unprovoked and premediated acts of aggression;

(b) Proposing measures to strengthen Botswana’s
capacity to receive and provide assistance to South
African refugees;

(c} Determining the consequent level of assistance
required by Botswana and to report thereon to the Security Council;

9. Requests all States and relevant agencies and
organizations of the United Nations system urgently to
extend all necessary assistance to Botswana;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor
developments related to this question and to report to
the Security Council as the situation demands;

11. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the
2599th meeting.


82 Ibid., document S/17279.
83 Ibid., Fortieth Year, 2598th meeting.
84 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545, p. 137.
85 Ibid., vol. 360, No. 5158, p. 130.
