Resolution 569 (1985)
of 26 July 1985

The Security Council,

Deeply concerned at the worsening of the situation in
South Africa and at the continuance of the human suffering that the apartheid system, which the Council
strongly condemns, is causing in that country,

Outraged at the repression, and condemning the arbitrary arrests of hundreds of persons,

Considering that the imposition of the state of
emergency in thirty-six districts of the Republic of South
Africa constitutes a grave deterioration of the situation
in that country,

Considering as totally unacceptable the practice by
the South African Government of detention without
trial and of forcible removal, as well as the discriminatory legislation in force,

Acknowledging the legitimacy of the aspirations of
the South African population as a whole to benefit from
all civil and political rights and to establish a united non-racial and democratic society,

Acknowledging further that the very cause of the
situation in South Africa lies in the policy of apartheid
and the practices of the South African Government,

1. Strongly condemns the apartheid system and all
the policies and practices deriving therefrom;

2. Strongly condemns the mass arrests and detentions recently carried out by the Pretoria Government
and the murders which have been committed;

3. Strongly condemns the establishment of the state
of emergency in the thirty-six districts in which it has
been imposed and demands that it be lifted immediately;

4. Calls upon the South African Government to set
free immediately and unconditionally all political prisoners and detainees, first of all, Mr. Nelson Mandela;

5. Reaffirms that only the total elimination of apartheid and the establishment in South Africa of a free,
united and democratic society on the basis of universal
suffrage can lead to a solution;

6. Urges States Members of the United Nations to
adopt measures against South Africa, such as the
following:

(a) Suspension of all new investment in South
Africa;

(b) Prohibition of the sale of krugerrands and all
other coins minted in South Africa;
(c) Restrictions on sports and cultural relations;

(d) Suspension of guaranteed export loans;

(e) Prohibition of all new contracts in the nuclear
field;

(f) Prohibition of all sales of computer equipment
that may be used by the South African army and police;

7. Commends those States which have already
adopted voluntary measures against the Pretoria
Government and urges them to adopt new provisions,
and invites those which have not yet done so to follow
their example;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the
Security Council on the implementation of the present
resolution;

9. Decides to remain seized of the matter and to
reconvene as soon as the Secretary-General has issued
his report, with a view to considering the progress made
in the implementation of the present resolution.

Adopted at the 2602nd meeting
by 13 votes to none, with 2 abstentions (United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of
America).