Resolution 812 (1993)
of 12 March 1993

The Security Council,

Taking note of the request contained in the letter dated 4 March
1993 addressed to the President of the Security Council by the Chargé
d'affaires a.i. of the Permanent Mission of Rwanda to the United
Nations, 2

Also taking note of the letters dated 22 February 1993 from the
Permanent Representative of Rwanda 3 and the Permanent Representative of Uganda 4 to the United Nations addressed to the President of the
Security Council in which the Governments of both those countries
called for the deployment of United Nations observers along their
common border,

Gravely concerned by the fighting in Rwanda and its consequences
regarding international peace and security,

Alarmed by the humanitarian consequences of the latest resumption
of the fighting in Rwanda, in particular the increasing number of
refugees and displaced persons, and by the threats to the civilian
populations,

Stressing the need for a negotiated political solution, in the framework of the agreements signed by the parties in Arusha, United
Republic of Tanzania, in order to put an end to the conflict in Rwanda,

Paying tribute to the efforts of the Organization of African Unity, to
promote such a solution,

Taking note of the statements made by the Government of Rwanda
and the Rwandese Patriotic Front’ by which the Rwandese armed
forces would remain in their current positions, the army of the
Rwandese Patriotic Front would pull back to the positions it occupied
before 7 February 1993 and the buffer zone between the forces would
be considered as a neutral demilitarized zone used to monitor the
implementation of the cease-fire by an international force,

Welcoming with satisfaction the joint communiqué issued at Dar-es-Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, on 7 March 1993 by the
Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front, concerning
in particular the modalities of the cease-fire to take effect on 9 March
1993 and the situation of displaced persons, 6

Welcoming also with satisfaction the decision of the Secretary-General to send a goodwill mission to the region, and having heard a
first oral report on the mission,

Determined that the United Nations, in consultation with the
Organization of African Unity and in support of its ongoing efforts,
should consider how a United Nations contribution might assist the
process towards a political settlement in Rwanda, in particular by
preventing the resumption of fighting and by monitoring the cease-fire,

1. Calls upon the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese
Patriotic Front to respect the cease-fire which took effect on 9 March
1993, to allow the delivery of humanitarian supplies and the return of
displaced persons, to fulfil the obligations they have accepted in the
agreements they have signed and to implement the commitments they
have undertaken in their above-mentioned statements 5 and joint
communique; 6

2. Invites the Secretary-General to examine in consultation with the
Organization of African Unity the contribution that the United Nations
could bring to strengthen the peace process in Rwanda, in support of
the efforts of the Organization of African Unity, in particular through
the possible establishment, under the aegis of the Organization of
African Unity and the United Nations, of an international force
entrusted, inter alia, with humanitarian assistance and the protection
of the civilian population and support of the Organization of African
Unity force for the monitoring of the cease-fire, and to report to the
Council most urgently on the matter;

3. Also invites the Secretary-General to examine the request by
Rwanda’ and Uganda‘ for the deployment of observers along the border
between these two countries;

4. Expresses its readiness to examine without delay the recommendations that the Secretary-General might submit in this regard;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to coordinate closely his efforts
with those of the Organization of African Unity;

6. Calls upon the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese
Patriotic Front to cooperate fully with the efforts of the United Nations
and the Organization of African Unity;

7. Urges the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic
Front to resume the negotiations on 15 March 1993 as agreed, in order
to resolve the pending questions with a view to signing a peace
agreement at the beginning of April 1993 at the latest;

8. Urges both parties strictly to respect the rules of international
humanitarian law;

9. Urges all States to refrain from any action that could increase the
tension in Rwanda and jeopardize respect for the cease-fire;

10. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3183rd meeting.



2 Ibid., document S/25363.
3 Ibid., document S/25355.
4 Ibid., document S/25356.
5 Ibid., document S/25363, annexes II and III.
6 Ibid., document S/25385.