Resolution 527 (1982)
of 15 December 1982

The Security Council,

Taking note of the letter dated 9 December 1982 from
the Chargé d’affaires a.i. of the Permanent Mission of the
Kingdom of Lesotho to the United Nations addressed to the
President of the Security Council, 83

Having heard the statement by His Majesty King
Moshoeshoe II of the Kingdom of Lesotho,

Bearing in mind that all Member States must refrain in
their international relations from the threat or use of force
against the territorial integrity or political independence of
any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United Nations,

Gravely concerned at the recent premeditated aggressive
act by South Africa, in violation of the sovereignty, airspace
and territorial integrity of the Kingdom of Lesotho, and its
consequences for peace and security in southern Africa,

Gravely concerned that this wanton aggressive act by
South Africa is aimed at weakening the humanitarian support given by Lesotho to South African refugees,

Deeply concerned about the gravity of the aggressive acts
of South Africa against Lesotho,

Grieved at the tragic loss in human life and concerned
about the damage and destruction of property resulting from
the aggressive act by South Africa against the Kingdom of
Lesotho,

1. Strongly condemns the apartheid régime of South
Africa for its premeditated aggressive act against the Kingdom of Lesotho which constitutes a flagrant violation of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country;

2. Demands the payment by South Africa of full and
adequate compensation to the Kingdom of Lesotho for the
damage to life and property resulting from this aggressive
act;

3. Reaffirms the right of Lesotho to receive and give
sanctuary to the victims of apartheid in accordance with its
traditional practice, humanitarian principles and its inter
national obligations;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to enter into immediate consultations with the Government of Lesotho and
agencies of the United Nations to ensure the welfare of the
refugees in Lesotho in a manner consistent with their security;

5. Requests Member States urgently to extend all necessary economic assistance to Lesotho in order to strengthen
its capacity to receive and maintain South African refugees;

6. Declares that there are peaceful means to resolve
international problems and that, in accordance with the
Charter of the United Nations, only these should be employed;

7. Calls upon South Africa to declare publicly that it
will, in the future, comply with provisions of the Charter
and that it will not commit aggressive acts against Lesotho
either directly or through its proxies;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor the implementation of the present resolution and to report regularly
to the Security Council as the situation demands:

9. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the

2407th meeting


83 Ibid., document S/15515.

