Resolution 402 (1976)
of 22 December 1976

The Security Council,

Having heard the statement of the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the Kingdom of Lesotho on 21 December
1976. 45

Gravely concerned at the serious situation created by
South Africa’s closure of certain border posts between
South Africa and Lesotho aimed at coercing Lesotho into
according recognition to the bantustan Transkei,

Recalling relevant General Assembly resolutions, in particular resolution 3411 D (XXX) of 28 November 1975,
condemning the establishment of bantustans and calling on
all Governments to deny recognition to the bantustans,

Recalling further General Assembly resolution 31/6 A of
26 October 1976, on the so-called independent Transkei
and other bantustans, which, inter alia, calls upon all
Governments to deny any form of recognition to the
so-called independent Transkei and to refrain from having
any dealings with the so-called independent Transkei or
other bantustans,

Noting with appreciation the decision of the Government
of Lesotho aot to recognize the bantustan Transkei in
compliance with United Nations decisions,

Considering that the decision of Lesotho constitutes an
important contribution to the realization of United Nations
objectives in southern Africa in accordance with the
principles and purposes of the Charter of the United
Nations,

Taking note of the urgent and special economic needs of
Lesotho arising from the closure of the border posts,

1. Endorses General Assembly resolution 31/6 A, which,
inter alia, calls upon al! Governments to deny any form of
recognition to the so-called independent Transkei and to
refrain from having any dealings with the so-called independent Transkei or other bantustans;

2. Commends the Government of Lesotho for its decision not to recognize the so-called independence of the
Transkei;

3. Condemns any action by South Africa intended to
coerce Lesotho into according recognition to the bantustan
Transkei;

4. Calls upon South Africa to take immediately all
necessary steps to reopen the border posts;

5. Appeals to all States to provide immediate financial,
technical and material assistance to Lesotho so that it can
carry out its economic development programmes and
enhance its capacity to implement fully the United Nations
resolutions on apartheid and bantustans;

6. Requests the United Nations and the organizations
and programmes concerned, in particular the United
Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme and all the United Nations specialized agencies, to
assist Lesotho in the present situation and to consider
periodically the question of economic assistance to Lesotho
as envisaged in the present resolution;

7. Requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with
the appropriate organizations of the United Nations system,
to organize, with immediate effect, all forms of financial,
technical and material assistance to the Kingdom of
Lesotho to enable it to overcome the economic difficulties
arising from the closure of the border posts by South Africa
owing to the refusal of Lesotho to recognize the so-called
independence of the Transkei;

8. Further requests the Secretary-General to keep the
situation under constant review, to maintain close liaison
with Member States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and international
financial institutions, and to report to the Security Council
at its subsequent meeting on the question;

9. Decides to remain seized of the question.

Adopted at the 1982nd meeting by consensus.


45 Ibid., Thirty-first Year, 1981st meeting.

