Resolution 552 (1984)

of 1 June 1984

The Security Council,

Having considered the letter dated 21 May 1984
from the representatives of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates 53
complaining against Iranian attacks on commercial
ships en route to and from the ports of Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia,

Noting that Member States pledged to live together
in peace with one another as good neighbours in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming the obligations of Member States with
respect to the principles and purposes of the Charter,

Reaffirming also that all Member States are obliged
to refrain in their international relations from the
threat or use of force against the territorial integrity
or political independence of any State,

Taking into consideration the importance of the
Gulf region to international peace and security and its
vital role to the stability of the world economy,

Deeply concerned over the recent attacks on commercial ships en route to and from the ports of Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia,

Convinced that these attacks constitute a threat to
the safety and stability of the area and have serious
implications for international peace and security,

1. Calls upon all States to respect, in accordance
with international law, the right of free navigation;

2. Reaffirms the right of free navigation in international waters and sea lanes for shipping en route to
and from all ports and installations of the littoral States
that are not parties to the hostilities;

3. Calls upon all States to respect the territorial
integrity of the States that are not parties to the hostilities and to exercise the utmost restraint and to
refrain from any act which may lead to a further escalation and widening of the conflict;

4. Condemns the recent attacks on commercial
ships en route to and from the ports of Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia;

5. Demands that such attacks should cease forthwith and that there should be no interference with ships
en route to and from States that are not parties to the
hostilities;

6. Decides, in the event of non-compliance with
the present resolution, to meet again to consider effective measures that are commensurate with the gravity
of the situation in order to ensure the freedom of
navigation in the area;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the
progress of the implementation of the present resolution;

8. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted at the 2546th meeting
by 13 votes to none, with
2 abstentions (Nicaragua and
Zimbabwe).


53 Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-ninth Year,
Supplement for April, May and June 1984, document S/16574.
