RESOLUTION 882 (1993)

Adopted by the Security Council at its 3305th meeting,
on 5 November 1993

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolution 782 (1992) of 13 October 1992 and all subsequent
resolutions,

Having considered the report of the Secretary—General on the United Nations
Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ) dated 1 November 1993 (S/26666 and Add.1)

Reiterating the importance it attaches to the General Peace Agreement for
Mozambique (S/24635, annex) and to the timely fulfilment in good faith by all
parties of the obligations contained therein,

Commending the efforts of the Secretary-General, his Special Representative
and the personnel of ONUMOZ to implement the mandate fully,

Reaffirming its conviction that the resolution of conflict in Mozambique
would contribute to peace and stability in the region,

Emphasizing with satisfaction the recent positive developments in the
Mozambican peace process including the direct talks between the President of
Mozambique, Mr. Joaquim Chissano, and the President of the Resistência Nacional
Mogambiçana (RENAMO), Mr. Afonso Dhlakama, and the agreements reached on
3 September 1993,

Stressing with mounting concern the continuing delays in the implementation
of the General Peace Agreement which both parties signed,

Stressing once again the unacceptability of attempts to gain more time or
further concessions, or to attach new conditions to the peace process and
urging strongly the parties not to raise any further issues which might
jeopardize the implementation of the General Peace Agreement, particularly in
light of the commitments entered into during the Secretary-General’s recent
visit to Mozambique,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;

2. Commends the agreements that were reached between President Chissano
and Mr. Dhlakama during the visit of the Secretary-General to Maputo on
outstanding issues that were impeding the peace process;

3. Reaffirms the vital importance it attaches to the holding of elections
no later than October 1994;

4. Welcomes the approval by the Mozambican parties of the revised
timetable for the implementation of the General Peace Agreement, and urges the
parties to adhere to it without any delay;

5. Urges the Mozambican parties to commence assembly of troops in
November 1993 and to initiate demobilization by January 1994 with a view to
ensuring the completion of the demobilization process by May 1994 on the basis
of the revised timetable;

6. Takes note of the progress made with regard to the formation of the
new Mozambican Defence Forces, particularly the commencement of full-scale
training in Nyanga (Zimbabwe) of troops from the Government and RENAMO for the
new national army;

7. Welcomes the approval of the guidelines for the Cease-fire Commission
governing the movement of troops after signature of the General Peace Agreement,
and urges the parties to adhere to the guidelines and to cooperate with ONUMOZ
in the efforts to enforce them;

8. Underlines the need to make immediately operational the National
Commission for Administration, the National Police Affairs Commission (COMPOL)
and the Commission for Information (COMINFO) following the agreements reached
recently on their chairmanship;

9. Authorizes the Secretary-General to proceed with the selection and
deployment of the 128 United Nations police observers approved by resolution
797 (1992) of 16 December 1992 with a view to deploying the observers as soon as
possible;

10. Underscores the importance of the parties making progress on achieving
agreed political goals, specifically, the approval of an electoral law and
establishment of an electoral commission by 30 November 1993 and the beginning
of the concentration of troops in the assembly areas, demobilization of
50 per cent of troops by 31 March 1994, sufficient progress to meet complete
demobilization by 31 May 1994, and accelerated progress in training and
integrating forces in the new Mozambican Defence Forces so that the process is
complete by August 1994;

11. Calls on the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to build on the
progress which has been achieved and to respect fully all the provisions of the
General Peace Agreement, in particular those concerning the cease-fire and the
movement of troops;

12. Decides to renew the mandate of ONUMOZ for a period of six months,
subject to the proviso that the Security Council will review the status of the mandate of ONUMOZ within 90 days based on a report by the Secretary-General as
described in paragraph 13;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to report by 31 January 1994 and every
three months thereafter on whether the parties have made sufficient and tangible
progress towards implementing the General Peace Agreement and meeting the
timetable laid out in paragraphs 3 and 10, and also to report on the situation
concerning the implementation of the mandate of ONUMOZ, taking into
consideration the need to achieve cost savings to the greatest extent possible,
while remaining mindful of the importance of an effective discharge of its
mandate;

14. Appeals to the international community to provide the necessary
financial assistance to facilitate the implementation of the General Peace
Agreement;

15. Appeals to the international community to make voluntary financial
contributions to the Trust Fund to be set up to support electoral activities of
the political parties upon the approval of the electoral law;

16. Reiterates its encouragement to the international community to provide
appropriate and prompt assistance for the implementation of the humanitarian
programme carried out in the framework of the General Peace Agreement, and urges
the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to facilitate unimpeded access to
humanitarian assistance to the civilian population in need;

17. Calls _on all parties to cooperate with the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other humanitarian agencies operating in
Mozambique to facilitate the speedy repatriation and resettlement of refugees
and displaced persons;

18. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.
