Resolution 825 (1993)
of 11 May 1993

The Security Council,

Having considered with concern the letter dated 12 March 1993
from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea dated 12 March 1993 3 addressed to the President of
the Security Council concerning the intention of the Government of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to withdraw from the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 4 and the report of the
Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, 2

Recalling the statement made by the President of the Council on 8
April 1993 1 in which the members of the Council welcome all efforts
aimed at resolving this situation and, in particular, encourage the
Agency to continue its consultations with the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea for proper settlement of the nuclear verification issue
in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,

Noting in that context the critical importance of the Treaty, and
emphasizing the integral role of Agency safeguards in the implementation of the Treaty and in ensuring the peaceful uses of nuclear energy,
and reaffirming the crucial contribution which progress in non-proliferation can make to the maintenance of international peace and
security,

Recalling the Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula 5 by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and
the Republic of Korea, which includes establishment of a credible and
effective bilateral inspection regime and a pledge not to possess nuclear
reprocessing and uranium enrichment facilities,

Noting that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is party to the
Treaty and has concluded a full-scope safeguards agreement as required
by that Treaty,

Having also considered with regret the Agency's Board of Governors' findings contained in its resolution GOV/2645 of 1 April 1993 2
that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is in non-compliance
with its obligations under the safeguards agreement that it concluded
with the Agency, 2 and that the Agency is not able to verify that there
has been no diversion of nuclear materials required to be safeguarded
under the terms of the safeguards agreement on nuclear weapons and
other nuclear explosive devices between the Agency and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,

Taking note of the statement made on 1 April 1993 7 by the Russian
Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the United States of America, the depositaries of the Treaty, which
questions whether the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea's stated
reasons for withdrawing from the Treaty constitute extraordinary events
relating to the subject-matter of the Treaty,

Taking note also of the letter of reply to the Director-General of the
Agency from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea dated 22 April
1993 which, inter alia, encourages and urges the Director-General to
hold consultations with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on
the implementation of the safeguards agreement, and noting also that
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has expressed its willingness to seek a negotiated solution to this issue,

Welcoming recent signs of improved cooperation between the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Agency and the
prospect of contacts between the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea and other Member States,

1. Calls upon the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to
reconsider the announcement contained in the letter of 12 March 1993?
and thus to reaffirm its commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;‘

2. Also calls upon the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to
honour its non-proliferation obligations under the Treaty and comply
with its safeguards agreement with the Agency as specified by the
Agency's Board of Governors’ resolution GOV/2636 of 25 February
1993;

3. Requests the Director-General of the Agency to continue to
consult with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea with a view to
resolving the issues which are the subject of the Board of Governors’
findings and to report to the Security Council on his efforts in due time;

4. Urges all Member States to encourage the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea to respond positively to the present resolution, and
encourages them to facilitate a solution;

5. Decides to remain seized of the matter and to consider further
action if necessary.

Adopted at the 3212th meeting by 13 votes to none
with 2 abstentions (China, Pakistan).



1 S/25562.
2 S/25556, annex.
3 Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-eighth year, Supplement for April, May and June 1993, document S/25405. 
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485. See CD/1147 of 25 March 1992 
5 See CD/1147 of 25 March 1992
6 Official Records a, the Security Council, Forty-eighth
Year, Supplement for January, February and March 1993.
7 Ibid., Supplement for April, May and June 1993,
document S/25515, annex.