RESOLUTION 813 (1993)

Adopted by the Security Council at its 3187th meeting,
on 26 March 1993

 
The Security Council,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the question of
Liberia (S/25402),

Recalling its resolution 788 (1992) of 19 November 1992,

Further recalling the statements by the President of the Council on its
behalf on 22 January 1991 (S/22133) and 7 May 1992 (S/23886) on the situation
in Liberia,

Reaffirming its belief that the Yamoussoukro IV Accord of 30 October 1991
(S/24815) offers the best possible framework for a peaceful resolution of the
Liberian conflict by creating the necessary climate and conditions for free
and fair elections in Liberia,

Deploring that parties to the conflict in Liberia have not respected or
implemented the various accords to date, especially the Yamoussoukro IV Accord,

Noting that the continuing breach of earlier accords hinders the creation
of a climate and conditions conducive to the holding of free and fair
elections in accordance with the Yamoussoukro IV Accord,

Recognizing the need for increased humanitarian assistance,

Welcoming the continued commitment of the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) to and the efforts towards a peaceful resolution of
the Liberian conflict,

Further welcoming the endorsement and support by the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) of these efforts,

Recalling the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United
Nations,

Determining that the deterioration of the situation in Liberia
constitutes a threat to international peace and security, particularly in this
region of West Africa,

1. Approves the report of the Secretary-General on the question of
Liberia (S/25402);

2. Commends ECOWAS for its efforts to restore peace, security and
stability in Liberia;

3. Commends the OAU for its efforts in support of the peace process in
Liberia;

4. Reaffirms its belief that the Yamoussoukro IV Accord offers the best
possible framework for a peaceful resolution of the Liberian conflict by
creating the necessary conditions for free and fair elections in Liberia, and
encourages ECOWAS to continue its efforts to assist in the peaceful
implementation of this Accord;

5. Condemns the violation of the cease-fire of 28 November 1990 by any
party to the conflict;

6. Condemns the continuing armed attacks against the peace-keeping
forces of FCOWAS in Liberia by one of the parties to the conflict;

7. Reiterates its call upon all parties to respect and implement the
cease-fire and the various accords of the peace process, including the
Yamoussoukro IV Accord of 30 October 1991, and the Final Communiqué of the
Informal Consultative Group Meeting of the ECOWAS Committee of Five in
Liberia, issued at Geneva on 7 April 1992, to which they themselves have
agreed;

8. Welcomes the Secretary-General's appointment of
Mr. Trevor Gordon-Somers as his Special Representative for Liberia;

9. Calls upon all States strictly to abide by and comply with the
general and complete embargo on all deliveries of weapons and military
equipment to Liberia imposed by resolution 788 (1992) under Chapter VII of the
United Nations Charter;

10. Demands that all parties fully cooperate with the Secretary-General
of the United Nations and ECOWAS with a view to ensuring the full and prompt
implementation of the Yamoussoukro IV Accord of 30 October 1991;

11. Declares its readiness to consider appropriate measures in support
of ECOWAS if any party is unwilling to cooperate in implementation of the
provisions of the Yamoussoukro Accords, in particular the encampment and
disarmament provisions;

12. Reiterates its call on Member States to exercise self-restraint in
their relations with all parties to the Liberian conflict, in particular to
refrain from providing any military assistance to any of the parties and also
to refrain from taking any action that would be inimical to the peace process;

13. Reaffirms that the embargo imposed by resolution 788 (1992) shall
not apply to weapons, military equipment and military assistance destined for
the sole use of the peace-keeping forces of ECOWAS in Liberia;

14. Further commends the efforts of Member States, the United Nations
system and humanitarian organizations in providing humanitarian assistance to
the victims of the conflict in Liberia, and in this regard reaffirms its
support for increased humanitarian assistance;

15. Demands that the parties concerned refrain from any action that will
impede or obstruct the delivery of humanitarian assistance and calls upon them
to ensure the safety of all personnel involved in international humanitarian
assistance;

16. Reiterates its call upon all parties to the conflict and all others
concerned to respect strictly the provisions of international humanitarian law;

17. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with ECOWAS, to
consider the possibility of convening a meeting of the President of the
Interim Government of National Unity and the warring factions, after thorough
and detailed groundwork, to restate their commitment to the implementation of
the Yamoussoukro IV Accord within an agreed timetable;

18. Requests the Secretary-General to discuss with ECOWAS and the
parties concerned the contribution which the United Nations could make in
support of the implementation of the Yamoussoukro IV Accord, including the
deployment of United Nations observers;

19. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the
implementation of this resolution as soon as possible;

20. Decides to remain seized of the matter.
