Resolution 582 (1986)

of 24 February 1986

The Security Council,

Having considered the question entitled “The situation
between Iran and Iraq”,

Recalling that the Security Council has been seized with
the question of the situation between Iran and Iraq for almost six years and that decisions have been taken thereon,

Deeply concerned about the prolongation of the conflict
between the two countries resulting in heavy losses of human lives and considerable material damage and endangering peace and security,

Recalling the provisions of the Charter and in particular
the obligation of all Member States to settle their international disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that
international peace and security and justice are not endangered,

Noting that both the Islamic Republic of Iran and Iraq
are parties to the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in
War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of
Bacteriological Methods of Warfare signed at Geneva on
17 June 1925, 45

Emphasizing the principle of the inadmissibility of the
acquisition of territory by force,

Taking note of the efforts of mediation pursued by the
Secretary-General,

1. Deplores the initial acts which gave rise to the conflict between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Iraq and deplores the continuation of the conflict;

2. Also deplores the escalation of the conflict, especially territorial incursions, the bombing of purely civilian
population centres, attacks on neutral shipping or civilian
aircraft, the violation of international humanitarian law
and other laws of armed conflict and, in particular, the use
of chemical weapons contrary to obligations under the
1925 Geneva Protocol:

3. Calls upon the Islamic Republic of [ran and Iraq to
observe an immediate cease-fire, a cessation of all hostilities on land, at sea and in the air and withdrawal of all
forces to the internationally recognized boundaries without delay;

4. Urges that a comprehensive exchange of prisoners-of-war be completed within a short period after the cessation of hostilities in co-operation with the International
Committee of the Red Cross:

5. Calls upon both parties to submit immediately all
aspects of the conflict to mediation or to any other means
of peaceful settlement of disputes;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his on-going efforts, to assist the two parties to give effect to this
resolution and to keep the Council informed;

7. Calls upon all other States to exercise the utmost restraint and to refrain from any act which may lead to afurther escalation and widening of the conflict and, thus,
to facilitate the implementation of the present resolution;

8. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the
2666th meeting


45 League of Nations, Treaty Series, vol. XCIV (1929), No. 2138, p. 65