Resolution 387 (1976)
of 31 March 1976

The Security Council,

Having considered the letter of the Permanent Representative of Kenya on behalf of the African Group of States at
the United Nations, 33

Having heard the statement of the representative of the
People’s Republic of Angola, 34

Recalling the principle that no State or group of States
has the right to intervene, directly or indirectly, for any
reason whatever, in the internal or external affairs of any
other State,

Recalling also the inherent and lawful right of every
State, in the exercise of its sovereignty, to request
assistance from any other State or group of States,

Bearing in mind that all Member States must refrain in
their international relations from the threat or use of force
against the territorial integrity or political independence of
any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United Nations.

Gravely concerned at the acts of aggression committed by
South Africa against the People’s Republic of Angola and
the violation of its sovereignty and territorial integrity,

Condemning the utilization by South Africa of the
international Territory of Namibia to mount that aggression,

Gravely concerned also at the damage and destruction
done by the South African invading forces in Angola and
by their seizure of Angolan equipment and materials,

Noting the letter of the Permanent Representative of
South Africa regarding the withdrawal of South African
troops, 35

1. Condemns South Africa’s aggression against the
People’s Republic of Angola;

2. Demands that South Africa scrupulously respect the
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the
People’s Republic of Angola;
3. Demands also that South Africa desist from the
utilization of the international Territory of Namibia to
mount provocative or aggressive acts against the People’s
Republic of Angola or any other neighbouring African
State;

4. Calls upon the Government of South Africa to meet
the just claims of the People’s Republic of Angola for a full
compensation for the damage and destruction inflicted on
its State and for the restoration of the equipment and
materials which its invading forces seized;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to follow the implementation of the present resolution.

Adopted at the 1906th meeting by 9 votes to none, with 5
abstentions (France, Italy,
Japan, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of
America). 36



33 [bid., document S/12007.
34 Ibid., Thirty-first Year. 1900th meeting.
35 Ibid., Thirty-first Year, Supplement for January, February and
March 1976, document S/12026.
36 One member (China) did not participate in the voting.
