Resolution 560 (1985)
of 12 March 1985

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolutions 473 (1980), 554 (1984) and
556 (1984), which, inter alia, demanded the cessation of
the uprootings, relocation and denationalization of the
indigenous African people,

Noting with deep concern the aggravation of the situation in South Africa resulting from repeated killings of
defenceless opponents of apartheid in various townships
all over South Africa and, most recently, the killing of
African demonstrators against forced removals at
Crossroads,

Gravely concerned by the arbitrary arrests of
members of the United Democratic Front and other
mass organizations opposed to the apartheid régime,

Deeply concerned by the preferment of charges of
“high treason” on Mrs. Albertina Sisulu, Mr. Archie
Gumede, Mr. George Sewpershad, Mr. M. J. Naidoo,
the Reverend Frank Chikana, Professor Ismael Mohammed, Mr. Mewa Ramgobin, Mr. Cassim Saloojee, Mr.
Paul David, Mr. Essop Jasset, Mr. Curtis Nkondo,
Mr.Aubrey Mokoena, Mr. Thomazile Qweta, Mr. Sisa
Njikelana, Mr. Sam Kikine and Mr. Isaac Ngcobo, officials of the United Democratic Front and other opponents of apartheid for their participation in the non-violent campaign for a united non-racial and democratic
South Africa,

Aware that racist South Africa’s intensified repression
and charges of “high treason” against leading opponents
of apartheid constitute an effort further to entrench
racist minority rule,

Concerned that repression further undermines the
possibilities of a peaceful solution of the South African
conflict,

Concerned over racist South Africa’s policy of the
uprooting, denationalization and dispossession of three
and a half million indigenous African people to date,
thus swelling the ranks of the other millions already
doomed to permanent unemployment and starvation,

Noting with indignation that South Africa’s policy of
bantustanization is also aimed at the creation of internal
bases for the fomenting of fratricidal conflict,

1. Strongly condemns the Pretoria régime for the
killing of defenceless African people protesting against
their forced removal from Crossroads and other places;

2. Strongly condemns the arbitrary arrests by the
Pretoria régime of members of the United Democratic
Front and other mass organizations opposed to South
Africa’s policy of apartheid;

3. Calls upon the Pretoria régime to release unconditionally and immediately all political prisoners and detainees, including Nelson Mandela and all other black
leaders with whom it must deal in any meaningful
discussion of the future of the country;

4. Also calls upon the Pretoria régime to withdraw
the charges of “high treason” instituted against the
United Democratic Front officials, and calls for their
immediate and unconditional release;

5. Commends the massive united resistance of the
oppressed people of South Africa against apartheid, and
reaffirms the legitimacy of their struggle for a united,
non-racial and democratic South Africa;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the
Security Council on the implementation of the present
resolution;

7. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the
2574th meeting.