Resolution 766 (1992)
of 21 July 1992

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolutions 668 (1990) of 20 September
1990, 717 (1991) of 16 October 1991, 718 (1991) of 31 October
1991, 728 (1992) of 8 January 1992, and 745 (1992) of 28
February 1992,

Recalling the statement made by the President of the
Security Council on 12 June 1992, 127

Recalling also that any difficulty arising in the implementation of the agreements on a comprehensive political settlement
of the Cambodia conflict signed in Paris on 23 October 1991 110
should be settled through close consultation between the
Supreme National Council of Cambodia and the United
Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia and must not be
allowed to undermine the principles of these agreements, or to
delay the timetable for their implementation,

Taking note of the second special report of the Secretary-General of 14 July 1992 on the United Nations Transitional
Authority in Cambodia, 129 and in particular of the fact that the
Cambodian People’s Party, the Front uni national pour un
Cambodge indépendant, neutre, pacifique et coopératif and the
Khmer People’s National Liberation Front have agreed to
proceed with phase II of the cease-fire as laid down in annex 2
of the Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of
the Cambodia Conflict and that the Party of Democratic
Kampuchea has so far refused to do so,

Taking note also of the Tokyo Declaration on the Cambodia Peace Process 130 issued on 22 June 1992, and the otherefforts made at Tokyo by the countries and parties concerned
for the implementation of the Paris agreements,

1. Expresses its deep concern at the difficulties met by the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia in the
implementation of the agreements on a comprehensive political
settlement of the Cambodia conflict signed in Paris on 23
October 1991 110;

2. Underlines that all signatories of the Paris agreements
are bound by all their obligations thereunder,

3. Deplores the continuing violations of the cease-fire and
urges all parties to cease all hostilities forthwith, to cooperate
fully with the Authority in the marking of all minefields and to
refrain from any deployment, movement, or other action
intended to extend the territory they control or which might
lead to renewed fighting;

4. Reaffirms the international community’s firm commitment to a process under which the Authority, operating freely
throughout all of Cambodia as authorized by the Paris agreements, can verify the departure of all foreign forces and ensure
full implementation of the agreements;

5. Demands that all parties respect the peaceful nature
of the Authority’s mission and take all necessary measures to
ensure the safety and security of all United Nations personnel;

6. Urges all parties to cooperate with the Authority in
broadcasting information helpful to implementation of the Paris
agreements;

7. Strongly deplores the continuing refusal by one of the
parties to permit the necessary deployment of all components
of the Authority to the areas under its control to enable the
Authority to carry out its full functions in the implementation
of the Paris agreements;

8. Urges all States, in particular neighbouring States, to
provide assistance to the Authority to ensure the effective
implementation of the Paris agreements;

9. Approves the efforts of the Secretary-General and his
Special Representative for Cambodia to continue to implement
the Paris agreements despite the difficulties;

10. Invites in particular the Secretary-General and his
Special Representative to accelerate the deployment of the
Authority’s civilian components of the, especially the component mandated to supervise or control the existing administrative structures;

11. Demands that the party that has failed so far to do so
permit without delay the deployment of the Authority in the
areas under its control, and implement fully phase II of the
plan as well as the other aspects of the Paris agreements;

12, Requests the Secretary-General and his Special
Representative to ensure that international assistance to the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of Cambodia from now on
benefits only the parties which are fulfilling their obligations
under the Paris agreements and cooperating fully with the
Authority;

13. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3099th
meeting.