Resolution 688 (1991)
of 5 April 1991

The Security Council,
Mindful of its duties and its responsibilities under the

Charter of the United Nations for the maintenance of international peace and security,

Recalling the provisions of Article 2, paragraph 7, of the
Charter,

Gravely concerned by the repression of the Iraqi civilian
population in many parts of Iraq, including most recently in
Kurdish-populated areas, which led to a massive flow of
refugees towards and across international frontiers and to crossborder incursions which threaten international peace and
security in the region,

Deeply disturbed by the magnitude of the human suffering
involved,

Taking note of the letters dated 2 and 4 April 1991,
respectively, from the representatives of Turkey and France to
the United Nations addressed to the President of the Security
Council, 123

Taking note also of the letters dated 3 and 4 April 1991
from the Permanent Representative of the Islamic Republic of
Iran to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, 124

Reaffirming the commitment of all Member States to
respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political
independence of Iraq and of all States in the region,
Bearing in mind the report transmitted by the Secretary-General on 20 March 1991,°

1. Condemns the repression of the Iraqi civilian population in many parts of Iraq, including most recently in Kurdish-populated areas, the consequences of which threaten international peace and security in the region;

2. Demands that Iraq, as a contribution to removing the
threat to international peace and security in the region,
immediately end this repression, and in the same context
expresses the hope that an open dialogue will take place to
ensure that the human and political rights of all Iraqi citizens
are respected;

3. Insists that Iraq allow immediate access by international humanitarian organizations to all those in need of
assistance in all parts of Iraq and make available all necessary
facilities for their operations;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to pursue his humanitarian efforts in Iraq and to report forthwith, if appropriate on
the basis of a further mission to the region, on the plight of the
Iraqi civilian population, and in particular the Kurdish population, suffering from the repression in all its forms inflicted by
the Iraqi authorities;

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to use all the
resources at his disposal, including those of the relevant United
Nations agencies, to address urgently the critical needs of the
refugees and displaced Iraqi population;

6. Appeals to all Member States and to ail humanitarian
organizations to contribute to these humanitarian relief efforts,

7. Demands that Iraq cooperate with the Secretary-General to these ends;
8. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted at the 2982nd meeting by 10
votes to 3 (Cuba, Yemen, Zimbabwe),
with 2 abstentions (China, India).