Resolution 846 (1993)
of 22 June 1993

The Security Council,

Reaffirming its resolution 812 (1993) of 12 March 1993,

Taking note of the interim report of the Secretary-General of 20 May
and 2 June 1993, 10

Also taking note of the requests of the Governments of Rwanda 3 and
Uganda 4 11 for the deployment of United Nations observers along the
common border of their countries as a temporary confidence-building
measure,

Emphasizing the need to prevent the resumption of fighting, which
could have adverse consequences on the situation in Rwanda and on
international peace and security,

Emphasizing also the need for a negotiated political solution, in the
framework of the agreements to be signed by the parties in Arusha,
United Republic of Tanzania, in order to put an end to the conflict in
Rwanda,

Paying tribute to the efforts of the Organization of African Unity
and the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania to promote
such a solution,

Taking note of the joint request to the Secretary-General by the
Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front concerning
the establishment of a neutral international force in Rwanda, 12

Stressing the importance of the ongoing negotiations in Arusha
between the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front,
and expressing its readiness to consider assistance to the Organization
of African Unity in the implementation of the agreements as soon as
they are signed,

1. Welcomes with appreciation the report of the Secretary-General; 10

2. Decides to establish the United Nations Observer Mission
Uganda-Rwanda to be deployed on the Ugandan side of the border for
an initial period of six months, as set out in the report of the Secretary-General, and subject to review every six months,

3. Decides that the Mission shall monitor the Uganda-Rwanda
border to verify that no military assistance reaches Rwanda, focus being
put primarily in this regard on transit or transport, by roads or tracks
which could accommodate vehicles, of lethal weapons and ammunition
across the border, as well as any other material which could be of
military use,

4. Requests the Secretary-General to conclude with the Government
of Uganda, before the full deployment of the Observer Mission, a
status-of-mission agreement including the safety, cooperation and
support the Government of Uganda will provide to the Mission;

5. Approves the dispatching of an advance party within fifteen days
of the adoption of the present resolution, or as soon as possible after the
conclusion of the status-of-mission agreement, and the full deployment
within thirty days of the arrival of the advance party,

6. Urges the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic
Front strictly to respect the rules of international humanitarian law,

7. Also urges the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese
Patriotic Front to refrain from any action that could contribute to
tension;

8. Welcomes the decision of the Secretary-General to support the
peace efforts of the Organization of African Unity by putting two
military experts at its disposal with a view to assisting the Neutral
Military Observer Group, in particular through logistic expertise to help
expedite deployment of the enlarged Group to Rwanda;

9. Further urges the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese
Patriotic Front to conclude quickly a comprehensive peace agreement,

10. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Security
Council on the results of the Arusha peace talks;

11.  Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the Council
on the contribution the United Nations could make to assist the
Organization of African Unity in the implementation of the above-mentioned agreement and to begin contingency planning in the event
that the Council decides such a contribution is needed;

12. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the
Security Council on the implementation of the present resolution within
sixty days of the deployment of the Observer Mission,

13. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3244th meeting.



10 Ibid., documents S/25810 and Add.1.
11 Ibid., document S/25797.
12 Ibid., document S/25951.