Resolution 310 (1972)
of 4 February 1972

The Security Council,

Taking note of the statement of the President of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, 16 in his capacity as
current Chairman of the Assembly of Heads of State
and Government of the Organization of African
Unity,

18 Resolutions or decisions on this question were also adopted
by the Council in 1968, 1969, 1970 and 1971.

Taking note of the statement of the President of the
United Nations Council for Namibia, 17

Gravely concerned over the present situation in Namibia and the repressive measures of the South African
Government, following the strike of the African contract labourers in the country and the widespread and
increasing manifestations of African resistance to the
illegal occupation of the Territory by the South African
Government,

Convinced that the Security Council, as a matter of
urgency, should find ways and means to enable the
people of the Territory to achieve self-determination
and independence,

Conscious of the need for full co-operation of all
Member States, in particular the permanent members
of the Security Council and the main trading partners
of South Africa, for this purpose,

Recalling its previous resolutions and those of the
General Assembly pertaining to Namibia,

Conscious of the special responsibilities of the United
Nations towards the people and Territory of Namibia,

Mindful of its responsibility to take necessary action
to secure strict compliance with the obligations entered
into by Member States under the relevant provisions
of the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming the inalienable right of the people of
Namibia to self-determination and independence, in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514
(XV) of 14 December 1960,

Reaffirming also the national unity and territorial
integrity of Namibia,

1. Strongly condemns the refusal of South Africa
to comply with the resolutions of the General Assembly
and the Security Council pertaining to Namibia;

2. Reaffirms that the continued occupation of
Namibia by the South African authorities is illegal and
detrimental to the interests of the people of Namibia;

3. Declares that the defiant attitude of South Africa
towards the decisions of the Security Council undermines the authority of the United Nations;

4. Strongly condemns the recent repressive measures against the African labourers in Namibia, and
calls upon the Government of South Africa to end
immediately these repressive measures and to abolish
any labour system which may be in conflict with the
basic provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights;

5. Calls upon all States whose nationals and corporations are operating in Namibia notwithstanding the
relevant provisions of Security Council resolution 283
(1970) to use all available means to ensure that such
nationals and corporations conform, in their policies
of hiring Namibian workers, to the basic provisions of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:

6. Considers that the continued occupation of
Namibia by the Government of South Africa in defiance
of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and
of the Charter creates conditions detrimental to the
maintenance of peace and security in the region;

7. Calls upon South Africa to withdraw immediately
its police and military forces as well as its civilian
personnel from the Territory of Namibia;

8. Decides that, in the event of failure on the part
of the Government of South Africa to comply with the
present resolution, the Security Council shall meet
immediately to decide upon effective steps or measures,
in accordance with the relevant Chapters of the Charter,
to secure the full and speedy implementation of the
present resolution;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the
Security Council on the implementation of the present
resolution not later than 31 July 1972.

Adopted at the 1638th
meeting by 13 votes to
none, with 2 abstentions
(France, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland).


16 See Official Records of the Security Council, Twenty-seventh Year, 1627th meeting.
17 Ibid., 1628th meeting.
