Resolution 853 (1993)
of 29 July 1993

The Security Council,
Reaffirming its resolution 822 (1993) of 30 April 1993,

Having considered the report issued on 27 July 1993 by the
Chairman of the Minsk Group of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe, 8

Expressing its serious concern at the deterioration of relations
between the Republic of Armenia and the Azerbaijani Republic and at
the tensions between them,

Welcoming acceptance by the parties concerned of the timetable of
urgent steps to implement its resolution 822 (1993),

Noting with alarm the escalation, in armed hostilities and, in
particular, the seizure of the district of Agdam in Azerbaijan,

Concerned that this situation continues to endanger peace and
security in the region,

Expressing once again its grave concern at the displacement of
large numbers of civilians in Azerbaijan and at the serious humanitarian
emergency in the region,

Reaffirming the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and
of all other States in the region,

Reaffirming also the inviolability of international borders and the
inadmissibility of the use of force for the acquisition of territory,

1. Condemns the seizure of the district of Agdam and of all other
recently occupied areas of the Azerbaijani Republic;

2. Also condemns all hostile actions in the region, in particular
attacks on civilians and bombardments of inhabited areas;

3. Demands the immediate cessation of all hostilities and the
immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the occupying
forces involved from the district of Agdam and all other recently
occupied areas of Azerbaijan;

4. Calls on the parties concerned to reach and maintain durable
cease-fire arrangements,

5. Reiterates in the context of paragraphs 3 and 4 above its earlier
calls for the restoration of economic, transport and energy links in the
region,

6. Endorses the continuing efforts by the Minsk Group of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to achieve a
peaceful solution to the conflict, including efforts to implement
resolution 822 (1993), and expresses its grave concern at the disruptive
effect that the escalation of armed hostilities has had on these efforts,

7. Welcomes the preparations for a monitor mission of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe with a timetable for its
deployment, as well as consideration within the Conference of the
proposal for a Conference presence in the region;

8. Urges the parties concerned to refrain from any action that will
obstruct a peaceful solution to the conflict, and to pursue negotiations
within the Minsk Group, as well as through direct contacts between
them, towards a final settlement,

9. Urges the Government of the Republic of Armenia to continue to
exert its influence to achieve compliance by the Armenians of the
Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan with resolution 822 (1993)
and the present resolution, and the acceptance by this party of the
proposals of the Minsk Group,

10. Urges States to refrain from the supply of any weapons and
munitions which might lead to an intensification of the conflict or the
continued occupation of territory;

ll. Calls once again for unimpeded access for international
humanitarian relief efforts in the region, in particular in all areas
affected by the conflict, in order to alleviate the increased suffering of
the civilian population, and reaffirms that all parties are bound to
comply with the principles and rules of international humanitarian law,

12. Requests the Secretary-General and relevant international
agencies to provide urgent humanitarian assistance to the affected
civilian population and to assist displaced persons to return to their
homes,

13. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the
Chairman-in-Office of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe as well as the Chairman of the Minsk Group, to continue to
report to the Council on the situation,

14. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3259th meeting.


8 Ibid., document S/26184.
