Resolution 514 (1982)
of 12 July 1982

The Security Council,

Having considered again the question entitled "The situation between Iran and Iraq",

Deeply concerned about the prolongation of the conflict
between the two countries, resulting in heavy losses of human lives and considerable material damage and endangering peace and security,

Recalling the provisions of Article 2 of the Charter of the
United Nations, and that the establishment of peace and
security in the region requires strict adherence to these
provisions,

Recalling that by virtue of Article 24 of the Charter the
Security Council has the primary responsibility for maintenance of international peace and security,

Recalling its resolution 479 (1980), adopted unanimously
on 28 September 1980, as well as the statement of the
President of the Security Council of 5 November 1980, 77

Taking note of the efforts of mediation pursued notably
by the Secretary-General and his representative, as well as
by the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the Organization of the Islamic Conference,

1. Calls for a cease-fire and an immediate end to all
military operations;

2. Calls further for a withdrawal of forces to internationally recognized boundaries;

3. Decides to dispatch a team of United Nations observers to verify, confirm and supervise the cease-fire and
withdrawal, and requests the Secretary-General to submit
to the Security Council a report on the arrangements required
for that purpose;

4. Urges that the mediation efforts be continued in a
co-ordinated manner through the Secretary-General with a
view to achieving a comprehensive, just and honourable
settlement, acceptable to both sides, of all the outstanding
issues, on the basis of the principles of the Charter of the
United Nations, including respect for sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States;

5. Requests all other States to abstain from all actions
that could contribute to the continuation of the conflict and
to facilitate the implementation of the present resolution;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Security Council within three months on the implementation
of the present resolution.

Adopted unanimously at the
2383rd meeting.


77 See Resolutions and Decisions of the Security Council, 1980, p. 23.

