Resolution 546 (1984)
of 6 January 1984

The Security Council,

Having considered the statement of the Permanent
Representative of Angola to the United Nations, 4

Recalling its resolutions 387 1976), 418 (1977), 428
(1978), 447 (1979), 454 (1979), 475 (1980) and 545 (1983),
Gravely concerned at the renewed escalation of
unprovoked bombing and persistent acts of aggression, including the continued military occupation,
committed by the racist régime of South Africa in
violation of the sovereignty, airspace and territorial
integrity of Angola,

Grieved at the tragic and mounting loss of human
life and concerned about the damage and destruction
of property resulting from those escalated bombing
and other military attacks against and occupation of
the territory of Angola by South Africa,

Indignant at the continued military occupation of
parts of the territory of Angola by South Africa in
contravention of the Charter of the United Nations
and relevant Security Council resolutions,

Conscious of the need to take effective steps for the
prevention and removal of all threats to international
peace and security posed by South Africa’s military
attacks,

1. Strongly condemns South Africa for its renewed,
intensified, premeditated and unprovoked bombing,
as well as the continuing occupation of parts of the
territory of Angola, which constitute a flagrant violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that
country and endanger seriously international peace
and security;

2. Further strongly condemns South Africa for its
utilization of the international Territory of Namibia
as a springboard for perpetrating the armed attacks as
well as sustaining its occupation of parts of the territory of Angola;

3. Demands that South Africa should cease immediately all bombing and other acts of aggression and
unconditionally withdraw forthwith all its military
forces occupying Angolan territory as well as undertake scrupulously to respect the sovereignty, airspace, territorial integrity and independence of Angola:
4. Calls upon all States to implement fully the
arms embargo imposed against South Africa in Security Council resolution 418 (1977):

5. Reaffirms the right of Angola, in accordance
with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations and, in particular, Article 51, to take
all the measures necessary to defend and safeguard its
sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence;

6. Renews its request to Member States to extend
all necessary assistance to Angola, in order that
Angola may defend itself against the escalating military attacks by South Africa as well as the continuing
occupation of parts of Angola by South Africa;

7. Reaffirms further that Angola is entitled to
prompt and adequate compensation for the damage
to life and property consequent upon these acts of
aggression and the continuing occupation of parts of
its territory by the South African military forces;

8. Decides to meet again in the event of noncompliance by South Africa with the present resolution in order to consider the adoption of more effective
measures in accordance with appropriate provisions
of the Charter;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor the
implementation of the present resolution and report to
the Security Council thereon not later than 10 January
1984;

10. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted at the 2511th meeting
by 13 votes to none, with
2 abstentions (United King-
dom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United
States of America).


4 Ibid., 2509th meeting.
