Resolution 246 (1968)
of 14 March 1968

The Security Council,

Recalling its resolution 245 (1968) of 25 January
1968, by which it unanimously condemned the refusal
of the Government of South Africa to comply with the
provisions of General Assembly resolution 2324
(XXII) of 16 December 1967 and further called upon
the Government of South Africa to discontinue forthwith the illegal trial and to release and repatriate the
South West Africans concerned,

Taking into account General Assembly resolution
2145 (XXI) of 27 October 1966 by which the General Assembly of the United Nations terminated the
Mandate of South Africa over South West Africa and
assumed direct responsibility for the Territory until its
independence,

Reaffirming the inalienable right of the people and
Territory of South West Africa to freedom and independence in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations and with the provisions of General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Mindful that Member States shall fulfil all their obligations as set forth in the Charter,

Distressed by the fact that the Government of South
Africa has failed to comply with Security Council resolution 245 (1968),

Taking into account the memorandum of the United
Nations Council for South West Africa of 25 January
1968 4 on the illegal detention and trial of the South
West Africans concerned and the letter of 10 February
1968 from the President of the United Nations Council
for South West Africa, 5

Reaffirming that the continued detention and trial
and subsequent sentencing of the South West Africans
constitute an illegal act and a flagrant violation of the
rights of the South West Africans concerned, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international status of the Territory now under direct United
Nations responsibility,

Cognizant of its special responsibility towards the
people and Territory of South West Africa,

1. Censures the Government of South Africa for its
flagrant defiance of Security Council resolution 245
(1968) as well as of the authority of the United
Nations of which South Africa is a Member;

2. Demands that the Government of South Africa
release and repatriate forthwith the South West Africans concerned ;

3. Calls upon States Members of the United Nations
to co-operate with the Security Council, in pursuance
of their obligations under the Charter, in order to obtain compliance by the Government of South Africa
with the provisions of the present resolution ;

4. Urges Member States who are in a position to
contribute to the implementation cf the present resolution to assist the Security Council in order to obtain
compliance by the Government of South Africa with
the provisions of the present resolution;

5. Decides that in the event of failure on the part
of the Government of South Africa to comply with the
provisions of the present resolution, the Security Council will meet immediately to determine effective steps
or measures in conformity with the relevant provisions
of the Charter of the United Nations;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to follow closely
the implementation of the present resolution and to
report thereon to the Security Council not later than
31 March 1968 ;

7. Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the
1387th meeting.


4 Ibid., document S/8353/Add.1.
5 Ibid., document S/8394.
