Resolution 868 (1993)
of 29 September 1993

The Security Council,

Recalling the statement of 31 March 1993 2 made on its behalf by the
President of the Security Council in connection with the Council's
consideration of the item entitled “An agenda for peace: preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping”,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of 27 August
1993 on the security of United Nations operations, 3

Recalling the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations
concerning privileges and immunities and the Convention on the
Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations, 4 as applicable to
United Nations operations and persons engaged in such operations,

Expressing grave concern at the increasing number of attacks and
use of force against persons engaged in United Nations operations, and
resolutely condemning all such actions,

Welcoming the initiatives being taken in the General Assembly to
consider the elaboration of new instruments relating to the security and
safety of United Nations forces and personnel, and noting the proposals
of the Secretary-General in this regard,

1. Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General of 27 August 1993
on the security of United Nations operations, 3

2. Encourages the Secretary-General to take forward those measures
proposed in his report falling within his responsibilities, with a view, in
particular, to ensuring that security matters are an integral part of the
planning, for an operation and that any such precautions extend to all
persons engaged in the operation;

3. Urges States and parties to a conflict to cooperate closely with the
United Nations to ensure the security and safety of United Nations
forces and personnel,

4. Confirms that attacks and the use of force against persons engaged
in a United Nations operation authorized by the Security Council will
be considered interference with the exercise of the responsibilities of the
Council and may require the Council to consider measures it deems
appropriate,

5. Confirms also that if, in the view of the Council, the host country
is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations with regard to the safety
and security of a United Nations operation and personnel engaged in
the operation, the Council will consider what steps should be taken
appropriate to the situation;

6. Determines that, when considering the establishment of future
United Nations operations authorized by the Council, the Council will
require, inter alia:

(a) That the host country take all appropriate steps to ensure the
security and safety of the operation and personnel engaged in the
operation;

(b) That the security and safety arrangements undertaken by the
host country extend to all persons engaged in the operation;

(c) That an agreement on the status of the operation and all
personnel engaged in the operation in the host country be negotiated
expeditiously and come into force as near as possible to the outset of the
operation,

7. Requests the Secretary-General, when recommending the
establishment or renewal of a United Nations operation by the Security
Council, to take into account the provisions of the present resolution;

8. Decides to remain seized of the matter.

Adopted unanimously at the 3283rd meeting.

 

2 S/25493.
3 Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-eighth
Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1993, document
S/263
4 General Assembly resolution 22 A (1).
