Resolution 540 (1983)
of 31 October 1983

The Security Council,

Having considered again the question entitled "The
situation between Iran and Iraq",

Recalling its relevant resolutions and statements
which, inter alia, call for a comprehensive cease-fire
and an end to all military operations between the
parties,

Recalling the report of the Secretary-General of
20 June 1983 28 on the mission appointed by him to
inspect civilian areas in Iran and Iraq which have been
subject to military attacks, and expressing its appreciation to the Secretary-General for presenting a
factual, balanced and objective account,

Also noting with appreciation and encouragement
the assistance and co-operation given to the Secretary-General’s mission by the Governments of Iran and
Iraq,

Deploring once again the conflict between the two
countries, resulting in heavy losses of civilian lives
and extensive damage caused to cities, property and
economic infrastructures,

Affirming the desirability of an objective examination of the causes of the war,
1. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his
mediation efforts with the parties concerned, with a
view to achieving a comprehensive, just and honourable settlement acceptable to both sides;

2. Condemns all violations of international
humanitarian law, in particular, the provisions of the
Geneva Conventions of 1949 in all their aspects,
and calls for the immediate cessation of all military
operations against civilian targets, including city and
residential areas;

3. Affirms the right of free navigation and commerce in international waters, calls on all States to
respect this right and also calls upon the belligerents
to cease immediately all hostilities in the region of the
Gulf, including all sea-lanes, navigable waterways,
harbour works, terminals, offshore installations and
all ports with direct or indirect access to the sea, and
to respect the integrity of the other littoral States;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to consult with
the parties concerning ways to sustain and verify the
cessation of hostilities, including the possible dispatch
of United Nations observers, and to submit a report
to the Security Council on the results of these consultations;

5. Calls upon both parties to refrain from any
action that may endanger peace and security as well
as marine life in the region of the Gulf;

6. Calls once more upon all other States to exercise
the utmost restraint and to refrain from any act which
may lead to a further escalation and widening of the
conflict and, thus, to facilitate the implementation of
the present resolution;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to consult with
the parties regarding immediate and effective implementation of the present resolution.

Adopted at the 2493rd meeting
by 12 votes to none, with 3
abstentions (Matta, Nicaragua, Pakistan).


38 Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-eighth Year,
Supplement for April, May and June 1983, document S/15834. 
